Context: On the third day when she once more went to the wood, everything happened exactly as on the first and second day. And now kiss me," said the snake, "but if you are afraid, put your apron between us." Question: What did the girl do differently on the third day? Answer: She ate and drank with a hearty appetite.
Context: When night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till the prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did couldn't awake him. So there was no luck so far; but the next day the prince passed by again and looked at her, and saluted her kindly, as a prince might a farmer's daughter, and passed one; and soon the witch's daughter passed by, and found her combing her hair, and pearls and diamonds dropping from it. Question: Why did the witch's daughter make another bargain with the youngest princess? Answer: The witch's daughter wanted the comb.
Context: And so they fetched some in all haste, and put them inside him, and the mother sewed him up so quickly again that he was none the wiser. When the wolf at last awoke, and got up, the stones inside him made him feel very thirsty, and as he was going to the brook to drink, they struck and rattled one against another. Question: How did the wolf feel after waking up? Answer: very thirsty
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: Who did Hyacinthia go to town dressed as? Answer: a peasant woman
Context: One day Isaac had put out a few miles to sea to fish, when suddenly a dark fog fell. Then he began to realize that either he was steering out to sea, or that the wind had veered, and at last he made sure the latter was the case. Question: What did Isaac think would happen after steering the boat for some time? Answer: He ought to touch land somewhere.
Context: At last they entered the palace gates, and the king's heart bounded with joy at beholding his beloved Princess Bella-Flor. 'There is no remedy that I can see,' said his majesty, 'but that you, who know where they are, should go and bring them back. Question: How did the king feel when he saw Princess Bella-Flor? Answer: joyful
Context: Long, long ago there lived, in Japan a brave warrior known to all as Tawara Toda, or "My Lord Bag of Rice." His true name was Fujiwara Hidesato, and there is a very interesting story of how he came to change his name. Question: Who was Tawara Toda? Answer: a brave warrior
Context: So he came up on deck, out of the cabin, and took a look at the weather. Then he called the ship's carpenter and several others, and told them to go down at once into the ship's hold, and bore two holes in the ship's bottom. Question: What did the master mariner tell the ship's carpenter and several others? Answer: go down at once into the ship's hold and bore two holes in the ship's bottom
Context: The hours slid by, and all was still, so still that Manawyddan well-nigh dropped asleep. He could no more come up with them than if they had been gnats, or birds of the air, save one only which lingered behind the rest, and this mouse Manawyddan came up with. Question: What did Manawyddan do after he saw one lingering mouse? Answer: seized it by the tail, and put it in his glove, and tied a piece of string across the opening of the glove
Context: When he came within hail of the four large men, who were fishing there every day, he cast his ball with such force that it rolled into the ice-hole about which they were busy. Saying which he rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water. His ball bounded back to the surface, and, picking it up, he ran off, tossing it before him in his own sportive way. Question: What did the four brothers promise to execute the next day? Answer: a terrible threat of vengeance
Context: Two or three days later the master said to him: 'The Porcelain Maiden is here: but, though she is as lovely as the dawn, she is so wicked that she scratches everyone that approaches her. When the youth entered the room where she was, the Golden Blackbird broke forth into a joyful song, and the Porcelain Maiden sang too, and jumped for joy. Question: How did the Porcelian Maiden respond when the youth entered her room? Answer: She sang and jumped for joy.
Context: This was the lamp's last night in the street, and to-morrow it must go to the town hall--two very dark things to think of. None of these thoughts were uttered aloud, however, for the lamp was good and honorable and would not willingly do harm to any one, especially to those in authority. Question: Why didn't the light burn brightly? Answer: because it was worried
Context: And so he took his drum, sabre, cock's feather, clasp-knife, pop-gun and air-pistol, and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves. Perhaps the very ones which killed the ram were still sitting there in a corner. Yes, it was not at all safe here, and there were no other people to be seen in the neighbourhood. Question: Why did Walter go to the kiln? Answer: He wanted to go where the ram was killed.
Context: It had pretty little blue flowers, as delicate as the wings of a moth. People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen. Question: What color are the flax's flowers? Answer: blue
Context: On the morrow when he went to reap the wheat he found nothing but the bare straw. The hours slid by, and all was still, so still that Manawyddan well-nigh dropped asleep. He could no more come up with them than if they had been gnats, or birds of the air, save one only which lingered behind the rest, and this mouse Manawyddan came up with. Question: Why were Manawyddan's corn and wheat disappearing? Answer: Mice took his crops.
Context: On the fifth day of the sixth month he sat in his hall of audience and gave judgment; and suddenly he felt quite weary and sleepy. These were all neat and clean in appearance, and waited upon the lady as though she were a princess. Dschou Bau came forward to meet her and invited her to be seated. Question: What will the mistress do when she visits Dschou Bau? Answer: ask for his help
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: What did Thomas ask the Queen for before she left? Answer: a parting gift
Context: He traveled on till he came to a small wigwam, and on looking into it he discovered a very old woman sitting alone by the fire. After she had thus spoken, she gave him the following directions for his journey:  "When you come near to the village which you seek, you will see in the center a large lodge, in which the chief of the village, who has two daughters, resides. Question: What did the old woman say the man could not succeed without? Answer: the invisible bones they use in the medicine-dance
Context: 'Here, my poor darling,'says he, 'is your eldest child, and there,' says he, pointing to a woman that was looking on with a smile on her face, 'is the eagle that carried him away.' He never stopped, and she never stopped, and as the sun was setting he turned up another lane, and there they found their little daughter. Question: What will happen to the husband after the sun rises? Answer: He will lose all memory of herself and the children.
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: Why didn't the Ould Boy refuse Tom's request? Answer: Tom walked so far.
Context: When the dreams had sung their song they skipped away, and Nukku Matti carried Lasse back to the boat. The wind had turned, and the boat had drifted out with one wind and drifted in with another while Little Lasse slept, and what Lasse thought was frizzling in a frying-pan was the low murmur of the waves as they washed against the stones on the shore. Question: What did Little Lasse do after he woke up? Answer: gathered together his boats and walked up the shore back to the house
Context: As they had approached, he saw that the shore was like a precipice, and that the large castle was surrounded by high walls and large iron gates and was strongly fortified. Question: Why was the large castle surrounded by high walls and large iron gates? Answer: to keep intruders out
Context: Hase-Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke, and promised to do all that she was told. to the good and wise Princess Murasaki, this woman had a cruel, bad heart. Question: Why did Princess Terute not like Hase-Hime? Answer: Princess Terute was envious.
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: What was the wolf obliged to do? Answer: get on his hind legs and dance Tatther Jack Walsh along with the rest.
Context: He took a tremendous jump off the top of the wall on to the top of the cat, and cuffed it off the basket, and kicked it into the garden-house, scratching off a handful of fur. THEN he took out the handkerchief of onions, and marched out of the garden. Question: What did old Mr. Bunny do when he had driven the cat into the green-house? Answer: He locked the door and whipped his son Benjamin.
Context: On the third morning the giant went off again with his goats. " You claim that she belongs to you, but perhaps, in spite of it, she may tell me what to do," and with that he went in to her. And if he asks how much you want, you must tell him as much as you can carry." Question: Why did the giant think he was a kind master? Answer: The giant gave seemingly simple tasks.
Context: said the Snow-man, by which he meant the sun was appearing again. ' If I only could, I would glide up and down the ice there, as I saw the boys doing; but somehow or other, I don't know how to run.' The weather is going to change; I feel it already by the pain in my left hind-leg; the weather is certainly going to change.' ' But the young girl sang:       Woods, your bright green garments don! Question: What will happen to the Snow-man when the weather changes? Answer: thaw
Context: She happened to be in the water-bucket when it was drawn up, but the light became too strong for her, and she got a pain in her eyes. The Mother-Toad might have told this and that, if she had chosen, but she never answered when they asked her anything, and so they left off asking. Question: What did the Mother-Frog learn after being drawn-up? Answer: that the well was not all the world
Context: The old eagle, who appeared to be the head of the tribe, was so pleased with this show of spirit that he immediately appointed two tall birds, uncommonly strong in the wings, to transport Owasso to his lodge. When he espied his son-in-law still unharmed, Mishosha grew very black in the face. Question: Why did Mishosha grow very black in the face? Answer: His son-in-law was still unharmed.
Context: A prize, or rather two prizes, a great one and a small one, had been awarded for the greatest swiftness in running,--not in a single race, but for the whole year. " The snail certainly took half a year to get over the threshold of the door; but he injured himself, and broke his collar-bone by the haste he made. Question: Who ran with his house on his back? Answer: the snail
Context: When Onwee swung around, with the great force and weight of the club with which he had dispatched the brother of the two wicked women, he found himself in a large village, surrounded by a great crowd of people. At the door of a beautiful lodge stood his sister, smiling, and ready to invite him in. Onwee entered, and hanging up his war-club and the enchanted moccasins, which he had recovered, he rested from his labors, and smoked his evening pipe, with the admiration and approval of the whole world. Question: Who did not praise Onwee? Answer: Ko-ko, the Owl
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig. Go to the devil," said the man, "he will be the first to rid you of it." The peasant went to him and asked whether he could tell him if they wanted to buy a pig in the devil's place. " Question: Why did the peasant go to the devil's place? Answer: He wanted to sell his pig.
Context: My name is Sadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no-Raiko. Now if you really wish him to be a samurai, I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service. Question: Who was the woodcutter really? Answer: Sadamitsu
Context: The King sent off for his physician in ordinary, who washed Jack all over with various essences and salves, so that he became white and was a remarkably handsome young man. After some years Jack and his wife went to visit his father, but the farmer did not recognize him, and declared he had no son; he had had one, but that one was born with bristles like a hedgehog, and had gone off into the wide world. Question: What happened the day after Jack my Hedgehog burned his hedgehog skin? Answer: the marriage ceremony was performed, and the old King bestowed his kingdom on Jack my Hedgehog
Context: "That sentiment does you honor," said the wind; "but for this purpose wax lights will be necessary. They suppose that you and every other light must be a wax taper. Question: What does the wind think the streetlamp will need? Answer: wax tapers
Context: 'This is the wretch who killed our father,' they said, 'and we demand that he should die also.' asked the judge, turning to the accused, and the poor man told how he had leaped from the wall, not knowing that anyone was beneath. Question: What did the elder brother do after the cases were over? Answer: rode the mule home, and brought back to his family enough money to keep them in comfort to the end of their days
Context: As the goat flew upward, the comrade swung himself up in back, and then they were off like the wind through the clouds: it was not a long journey. Suddenly they stood before a wall of rock, she knocked, and then they took their way into the interior of the hill, to the troll who was her dearest. " Question: How did the princess and the troll feel about the plan to hide the shears? Answer: excited
Context: "When the performance was over, and the puppets removed behind the curtain, the Polytechnic lecturer invited me into his room to take a glass of wine. He talked of my comedies, and I of his science, and I believe we were both equally pleased. Question: what did the Polytechnic lecturer do after the performance? Answer: invited the man to his room
Context: The boy ordered them to throw the first cord of birch-wood overboard, billet by billet, one at a time and never two, and he did not let them touch the other two cords. Now they obeyed him to the letter, and did not laugh; but cast out the birch-wood billet by billet. Question: What was heard after the last billet fell? Answer: a groaning
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: What did the wife see when the hunter was absent? Answer: a black cloud approaching
Context: The magician began to feel uneasy, for he found that he had been outwitted. He then uttered the charm to his canoe, and it shot out of sight, leaving Owasso to make his peace the best way he could. Question: Why did the Manito take Owasso to a solitary island? Answer: to get rid of Owasso
Context: "Yes, it is a very valuable whistle," said Esben, "and I will not sell it," but at last, as a favor to her, he said he would let her have it if she gave him two hundred dollars, and a kiss for every dollar to boot. On the following day the queen herself set out, and she felt quite sure that she would succeed in coaxing the whistle away from him. Question: Why did the princess agree to kiss Esben? Answer: They were in the middle of the forest, where no one could see or hear them.
Context: One day Momotaro came to his foster-father and said solemnly:  "Father, by a strange chance we have become father and son. Your goodness to me has been higher than the mountain grasses which it was your daily work to cut, and deeper than the river where my mother washes the clothes. Question: Why did Momotaro feel thankful towards his parents? Answer: His parents take good care of him.
Context: The men took the girdle and gave it to Karin upon their return home. No sooner had she done so than the oak tore itself out of the ground, and flew to the North, borne away by the storm-wind. Question: Why did Karin clasp the girdle around the oak-tree before putting it on? Answer: She knew the giant was trying to trick her.
Context: The wise man had them show him the stone; then he spoke: "This stone is only obeyed by the dragons who make clouds and send down the rain. When they admitted that they had not, the wise man said: "How then will you compel the dragons to yield their treasure?" Question: Why couldn't Lo-Dsi-Tschun and his two brothers use their stone? Answer: This stone was only obeyed by the dragons who made clouds and send down the rain.
Context: The White Cat herself was riding a monkey, which climbed even up to the eagles' nests when she had a fancy for the young eaglets. Never was there a pleasanter hunting party, and when they returned to the castle the Prince and the White Cat supped together as before, but when they had finished she offered him a crystal goblet, which must have contained a magic draught, for, as soon as he had swallowed its contents, he forgot everything, even the little dog that he was seeking for the King, and only thought how happy he was to be with the White Cat! Question: What was the White Cat riding on? Answer: riding on a monkey
Context: And so it did, for very soon the poor brother reached the place, bespattered with mud from head to foot, but ready to do all he could to help with the mule and his master. When he saw this the muleteer's anger knew no bounds, and forgetting that without the help given him he would have lost his mule altogether, he began to abuse the poor man, declaring that he had ruined his beast, and the law would make him pay for it. Question: What will happen after the elder brother helps the muleteer? Answer: The muleteer will be mad at him.
Context: On the third day when she once more went to the wood, everything happened exactly as on the first and second day. And now kiss me," said the snake, "but if you are afraid, put your apron between us." Question: How was the prince delivered? Answer: by the girl's courage
Context: The third day the prince went by, and stopped to talk with the strange woman. He said that he often did, but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweet song in his dreams, and could not wake, and that the voice was one that he must have known and loved in some other world long ago. Question: What did the youngest princess tell the prince to do? Answer: not tasting any drink to-night
Context: "You must call the raven," said the wolf, and that is what the king's son did. And the raven came at once, and flew right down with the key, and now the prince could enter the church. Now the prince again did not know how he was to get hold of it. " Question: Why did the troll agree to turn the princess and brides back? Answer: He would do all the king's son asked him to if only he would not squeeze his heart in two.
Context: they all cried together, and wanted to catch up with it and grab it on the run; but the pancake rolled and rolled, and sure enough, it got so far ahead of them that they could no longer see it, for it had nimbler legs than all of them. "Dear, good pancake, don't roll so fast; but wait a little and let me eat you!" Question: What did the man want to do when he saw the pancake? Answer: eat it
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: Why did the wife say her husband cursed their child? Answer: Their son was half-hedgehog.
Context: For many days with this intention I have waited on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent-dragon that you saw, in the hope that some strong brave man would come along. You are the first man I have found able to look at me without fear, so I knew at once that you were a man of great courage. Question: Why was the centipede the Dragon King's enemy? Answer: Night after night it came and carried off one of his family.
Context: The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. This he purposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when he expected to meet the third robber Takeru. Question: What did Yamato make a sword out of? Answer: wood
Context: And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles and helper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, by mine own unaided power, cannot work the like. She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout, and she took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff-balls of the woods, and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats, and with these she fed Murtough and the hosts. Question: Why did the king ask Sheen to work some great wonders? Answer: He wanted to see her powers.
Context: The Dark Man didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and he seemed to have no suspicion of me. I got into bed, and couldn't sleep for a long time; and when I examined my five guineas this morning, that I left in the table drawer the last thing, I found five withered leaves of oak--bad luck to the giver! Question: Where was the neighbor after she left the castle? Answer: in the dyke of the Rath of Cromogue
Context: 'This is the wretch who killed our father,' they said, 'and we demand that he should die also.' asked the judge, turning to the accused, and the poor man told how he had leaped from the wall, not knowing that anyone was beneath. Question: What did the young men decide to do? Answer: pay eight hundred pounds
Context: The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was when the man returned from his work in the field. Sure enough, Shiro was waiting for his master and the evening tit-bit. Question: Why did the man eat a frugal supper of rice and vegetables? Answer: He was poor.
Context: He returned, and inquired whether his grandfather had put up the poles and made the fire. Another day the young man went out to see what there was, within a day's hunt, that was curious; and on entering the woods he heard a voice calling out to him, "Come here, you destined wearer of the White Feather. Question: What did the voice-spirit tell the boy to throw when he meets his enemy? Answer: a vine
Context: There was but little light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and its fitful flashes, by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness, served rather to increase than to dispel her fears. cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge; "there are two corpses clothed with garments!" Question: Why was little light in the lodge? Answer: fire was low
Context: And the sister wept over her poor lost brother, and the fawn wept also, and stayed sadly beside her. At night, when the sister was tired, and had said her prayers, she laid her head on the fawn's back, which served her for a pillow, and softly fell asleep. Question: Where did the sister and fawn decide to live? Answer: in a little house in the woods
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: Where did the little white hare live? Answer: Inaba
Context: Now it happened that one Thursday evening late in the fall there was a terrible storm raging outside. It was pitch dark, and it rained and stormed so that the house shook in every joint. Question: What happened because of the terrible storm? Answer: It was pitch dark, and it rained and stormed so that the house shook in every joint.
Context: By this act the marriage ceremony was completed, and Owasso and the magician's daughter were man and wife. But no sooner was Owasso in the family than the old Manito wished him out of the way. Question: Why did the Manito hurl his son-in-law headlong into the water? Answer: to get rid of him
Context: When Confucius came to the earth, the Kilin, that strange beast which is the prince of all four-footed animals, and only appears when there is a great man on earth, sought the child and spat out a jade whereon was written: "Son of the Watercrystal you are destined to become an uncrowned king!" And Confucius grew up, studied diligently, learned wisdom and came to be a saint. Question: Who is the strange beast which is the prince of all four-footed animals? Answer: the Kilin
Context: "Now you must slaughter him, and cook him in the big kettle, you know which one I mean. Then the Master Girl took a knife, and cut the youth's little finger, and let three drops of blood fall on the bench. Question: What did the giant do while the Master Girl was to make the soup? Answer: slept
Context: And from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for her young heart. Every morning, to gather strength for the day's duties before her, and every evening, for consolation before she lay down to rest, did the young girl take out the mirror and gaze at the reflection which in the simplicity of her innocent heart she believed to be her mother's soul. The woman herself was a little frightened too at what she had seen. Question: What did the woman see the girl doing? Answer: looking in the mirror
Context: In a lonely forest, there once lived a man and his wife, who had a son. As he advanced rapidly, she ran in, and taking the hand of her son, a boy of three or four years old, she led him out. Question: Who did the wife see towards the lake? Answer: a very large man
Context: "No, I have not abused you enough as yet," said the shepherd and aimed another arrow. If I cannot stand your abusive words, I surely will not be able to bear up against your blows," cried Stompe Pilt. Question: Why did Stompe Pilt jump back into his hill? Answer: He was afraid to fight the shepherd.
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: How did the poor man feel after the small woman threatened him? Answer: scared
Context: The next morning he ran with the second giant, whom he also outran, killed and beheaded. This White Feather declined, as he preferred to keep the heads as trophies of his victory. He told White Feather that he was about to be deceived; that he had never known any other sex but his own, but that as he went on his way to the lodge he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world. He must pay no attention to her, but as soon as he caught her eye he must wish himself changed into an elk. Question: Why did White Feather become an elk? Answer: He must wish himself changed into an elk.
Context: When they retired to rest the Princess feared lest Jack should kiss her because of his prickles, but he told her not to be alarmed as no harm should befall her. When he was about to lie down in bed he would creep out of his hedgehog skin, and leave it lying at the bedside; then the men must rush in, throw the skin into the fire, and stand by till it was entirely burnt up. Question: Why did Jack my Hedgehog promise the second Princess that no harm would come to her? Answer: The King fulfilled his promise.
Context: At about that time the emperor was induced to have some of his faithful servants slain. Later, when the rebellion of the "Red Eyebrows" broke out, his tomb was opened. Question: Why was Dschang Liang wandering with Laotsze in the invisible world? Answer: His feigning illness loosed his soul from his body and disappeared.
Context: As he did so he became aware that some one was behind him, and at the same time a voice called out to him to wait. Watanabe knew at once that this was the arm of an ogre, so he drew his sword and cut at it fiercely. Question: What happened as Watanabe was leaving? Answer: He became aware that some one was behind him.
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: What did Redhead nudge Tom about? Answer: how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure
Context: The giant wondered more and more at this; yet he did not answer a word, but went to bring two great bowls of hasty-pudding for their breakfast. Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as himself, so he contrived to button a leathern bag inside his coat, and slip the hasty-pudding into this bag, while he seemed to put it into his mouth. Question: What did the giant bring as breakfast? Answer: two great bowls of hasty-pudding
Context: And the father said: "I had been away from home so long that I was overjoyed to return. And from that time no further misfortune happened to the family of Hu-Wu-Bau. Question: Why did Hu-Wu-Bau's children die? Answer: Hu-Wu-Bau's father thought of his little grand-children and called them to him.
Context: "I was giving a representation," he said, "in the hall of the posting-house in the little town of Slagelse. All at once, a person in black, of student-like appearance, entered the room, and sat down. Question: what was the town called? Answer: Slagelse
Context: An old man had an only son, named Iadilla, who had come to that age which is thought to be most proper to make the long and final fast which is to secure through life a guardian genius or spirit. To accomplish his wish, he thought it necessary that the young Iadilla should fast a much longer time than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom, whose fame he coveted. Question: Who was the only son of an old man? Answer: Iadilla
Context: Then Hans took Grethel, and tied a rope round her neck, and led her home, and fastened her up to the manger, and went to his mother. Then Hans went into the stable, and taking all the eyes out of the sheep, he threw them in Grethel's face. Question: What did Hans tie Grethel to? Answer: the manger
Context: 'O Fionn,' asked the man of the door-post, 'do you feel surprised at the appearance and arrangements of this house?' The giant carrying the grunting hog between the prongs of the iron fork, whom you first saw, is he who is yonder, and his name is SLOTH. The old man of the bright eyes yonder signifies the WORLD; and he is more powerful than anyone, which has been proved by his rendering the ram powerless. Question: Who had bright eyes yonder? Answer: WORLD
Context: All this made the king somewhat dizzy, and he had to set his crown on the table and scratch his head. It was beyond his comprehension--for all that he was a king; since he could have sworn that it had all come to pass in the course of a single night, and if the duke were not the devil himself, he was at least a magician. Question: How did the king feel when he heard the story from the captain? Answer: confused
Context: The young man began his journey, and soon arrived at a place where four roads met. He did not know which to choose, and tossed his cap in the air, determining that the direction of its fall should decide him. Question: Why did the young man toss his cap? Answer: to determine which road to choose
Context: But when he got home to the castle, one of his brothers was just getting married, and the bride and all the guests were already there. But the king's son would taste nothing, and only made haste in order to get away. Question: Who gave the king's son the apple? Answer: the bride's sister
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: When did the fiery dragon come? Answer: every seven years
Context: "There was a handsome young man, once," thought the lamp; "it is certainly a long while ago, but I remember that he had a little note, written on pink paper with a gold edge. Twice he read it through, and kissed it, and then looked up at me with eyes that said quite plainly, 'I am the happiest of men!' Question: Who was the letter from? Answer: the young man's lady love
Context: By this time it was getting near sunset, and the plain was in shadow, though the tops of the mountains were still quite bright. The youths had all ceased to be afraid, when they were startled by a low rushing sound behind them, and, looking round, saw that the pool was slowly rising, and the spot where they had landed the Bunyip was quite covered. ' Question: What was happening the pool? Answer: The pool was slowly rising and the spot where they had landed the Bunyip was quite covered.
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: Who was very wealthy and greedy? Answer: the younger brother's wife
Context: Don't you remember, prince, that I was your wedded wife for four years?' ' The prince and princess went with the rest, and by the time all were safe on the lawn, down came the building, and made the ground tremble for miles round. Question: What happened after the youngest princess and prince connected their rings together? Answer: His full memory came back on him, and he flung his arms round his wife's neck, and both burst into tears.
Context: As he did so he became aware that some one was behind him, and at the same time a voice called out to him to wait. Watanabe knew at once that this was the arm of an ogre, so he drew his sword and cut at it fiercely. Question: Why was there a loud yell of pain? Answer: Watanabe cut the ogre's arm.
Context: When he came to the castle, they at once took him on as a shepherd. But if he lost so much as a single hare, and no matter how small it might be, then they would cut three red strips from his back, and the king was so sure of his case that he went right off to whet his knife. Question: How did the hares act in the enclosure compared to how they were in the forest? Answer: They were obedient in the enclosure.
Context: She began to make excuses, and said she could not find the way to it; but the bridegroom said,  "You must come and pay me a visit next Sunday; I have already invited company, and I will strew ashes on the path through the wood, so that you will be sure to find it." When Sunday came, and the girl set out on her way, she felt very uneasy without knowing exactly why; and she filled both pockets full of peas and lentils. Then the girl related to her father all that had happened to her. Question: What showed them the way home? Answer: the peas and lentils
Context: He sat up slowly and rubbed his eyes, and crossly demanded what his wife was making all that noise about. By the time that the man was alive to what had happened, and they both got outside the gate, the boar had got well away, but they saw the monkey running after the thief as hard as his legs would carry him. Question: How did the husband feel when his wife was making noise? Answer: angry
Context: The third day he killed a partridge, and this they had for their evening meal. At last, although so very small of stature, he became a great hunter, and all that he shot he brought home and shared with his sister; and whenever he entered the lodge, a light beamed about his head and filled the place with a strange splendor. Question: What did Dais-Imid and his sister have for their evening meal on the third day? Answer: a partridge
Context: At last he went out, but nothing could be seen or heard of the captive daughter. It would be a mortal shame, thought the king, to be outstripped by a man with one leg tied up; so, shouting and cheering, and issuing orders on all sides, he set the swiftest of his herd upon the track, with strict commands to take Aggo dead or alive. Question: What did the king consider to be a mortal shame? Answer: to be outstripped by a man with one leg tied up
Context: The inn-keeper replied: "The constable of the temple of the Great Mountain appeared to me last night and said: 'To-morrow a man by the name of Dung who is a good friend of mine is coming from the bay of Kaiutschou!' Joyfully Dung followed him, and the inn-keeper waited on him with the greatest consideration, and saw that he had great plenty to eat and to drink. Question: What will the spirit do when he meets Dung? Answer: stand by Dung's bedside, give him his hand, and ask how things had gone with him since he had last seen him
Context: they all cried together, and wanted to catch up with it and grab it on the run; but the pancake rolled and rolled, and sure enough, it got so far ahead of them that they could no longer see it, for it had nimbler legs than all of them. "Dear, good pancake, don't roll so fast; but wait a little and let me eat you!" Question: What happened when the pancake got so far ahead? Answer: They could no longer see it.
Context: And in the morning he did so, and he took the best horse from the stable and rode to the door of Niall, and turned the horse's back to the door, and demanded news of the death of Anshgayliacht, and the sword of light. And Niall followed, and as he was passing the gate cut the horse in two, and took half the saddle with him, and his mother met him, and threw the flesh in his eyes and blinded him. Question: Why did the mother tell her son to sleep as much as he wanted? Answer: Morraha was gone.
Context: But the spiritual part of Notscha, his soul, fluttered about in the air, and was driven by the wind to the cave of the Great One. It is because you are always thinking of him that he appears to you in dreams. Question: How did Notscha give his mother a message? Answer: appeared to his mother in a dream
Context: And he went to sleep, and there was heavy sleep on him, and Morraha went in and took hold of the sword that was on the bed at his head. "Well," said the man, "let us sit down together till I tell the story. I would be laughing, and my wife would be asking me what was the reason of my laughing. Question: Why did the man begin to laugh when he heard the birds arguing? Answer: He heard them arguing and knew that the rods were there.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: What was Aspenclog's next task? Answer: to keep a mill grinding
Context: You have but three days more, and your term will be completed. The father addressed Iadilla as he had the day before, and promised that he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him by the dawn of the morning. "I will not shame you, my father," replied Iadilla; and he lay so still and motionless that you could only know that he was living by the gentle heaving of his breast. Question: Why will the father be the lone sufferer? Answer: His father would lose his only son.
Context: At length grew hungry, so the young woman was sent home to bring them food, and also to give the horses their dinner. When she went into the stables, she suddenly saw the heavy pack-saddle of the speckled mare just over her head. Question: Why was the young woman sent home? Answer: to bring the family food, and also to give the horses their dinner
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. On this Jack my Hedgehog stepped down from his tree and said he would undertake to show the King his way home if the King on his part would give him his written promise to let him have whatever first met him on his return. Question: How was the first king different from the second king? Answer: The first king cheated Jack my Hedgehog.
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. But the queen laughed at her grief, and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished. Question: How did the princess feel when she learned the prince had gone missing? Answer: sad
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. I shall be forever happy in my new state, for I have been obedient to my parent. He alone will be the sufferer, for my guardian spirit is a just one. Question: How will Iadilla be forever happy in his new state? Answer: He shall always be the friend of men, and keep near their dwellings.
Context: With the utmost politeness he introduced Timmy Willie to nine other mice, all with long tails and white neckties. Johnny Town-mouse and his friends noticed it; but they were too well bred to make personal remarks; only one of them asked Timmy Willie if he had ever been in a trap? Question: How did Johnny Town-Mouse and his friends treat Timmy Willie when they met him? Answer: politeness
Context: Yes," said the man, "for I have to buy the first thing that comes my way." " I don't even know whether I ought to show it to you; but I bought the first thing to be had, and that was a pup," said he. " Question: How did the youth feel when he saw the pup? Answer: satisfied
Context: But amid all the leafy haunts, none drew her steps toward it so often as a forest of pines, on the open shore, called Manitowok, or the Sacred Wood. And whenever they were compelled by stress of weather to make a landing on this part of the coast, they never failed to leave an offering of tobacco, or some other token, to show that they desired to stand well with the proprietors of the fairy ground. Question: Why would the Indians leave an offering of tobacco or some other token? Answer: to show that they desired to stand well with the proprietors of the fairy ground.
Context: "Why," said she, "that's Finn's bread--the only bread he ever eats when at home; but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there. "I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he to Oonagh, "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer." Question: Why did Far Rua thank his stars that he missed meeting Finn? Answer: He'd have no chance with a man who could eat such bread as that, which even his son that's in the cradle can munch before his eyes.
Context: Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king's son who was enchanted by an old witch, so that he was obliged to sit in a large iron stove in a wood. He said, 'You must come again, and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron.' Question: Where was the king's daughter wandering round and round for nine days? Answer: wood
Context: 'I'd like to wring their necks,' said the magician, and made all haste home, where he had every one of his servants beaten to within an inch of their lives. We'll only go and look at what's to be seen in the town for about an hour, and then we'll continue our journey to my father's kingdom.' Question: How did the Magician feel when he lost Hyacinthia and the Prince? Answer: angry
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: Where did Hyacinthia go straight to as a peasant? Answer: the King's kitchen
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. A sorceress, that had a beautiful daughter, wished me for her son-in-law; but the mother got power over me, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.' Question: Where was the youngest princess when she woke up? Answer: a great hall
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: How will Fionn feel when he hears Roc's story? Answer: sorry
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. The mortar was very sorry when he heard the woful tale and promised at once to help the young crab punish the monkey to death. The mortar now sent to fetch the bee and the chestnut (also the crab's old friends) to consult them about the matter. Question: What characteristics did the monkey have? Answer: greed
Context: "That is terrible disease for a Snow Man," said the yard-dog; "I have suffered from it myself, but I got over it. Ah, now I understand why he had such a great longing for the stove," said the yard-dog. " Question: What happened as the warmth increased? Answer: the Snow Man decreased
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I am come," she said, "because I am beloved of Murtough, son of Erc, King of Erin, and I come to seek him here." Question: Where did Murtough want Sheen to go with him? Answer: Cletty of the Boyne
Context: "It is so delightfully cold," said the Snow Man, "that it makes my whole body crackle. The sun went down, and the full moon rose, large, round, and clear, shining in the deep blue. Question: How did the Snow Man describe the weather? Answer: delightfully cold
Context: The maiden seated herself on the back of the South Wind, and he flew away with a roar and a rush. She wishes to ask you whether you have ever been there, and if you can show her the road that leads to it. Question: What did the North Wind do when they were still a good way off? Answer: blew a cold blast at them
Context: At last news reached the king that Moti had exchanged his horse for a live tiger; and the monarch himself came down, half disbelieving the tale, to see if it were really true. The king, however, did not share his pleasure at all, but called up a soldier to shoot the tiger, much to the relief of all the inmates of the serai except Moti. Question: Why was the king at his wits' end? Answer: He had neither money to buy him off nor soldiers enough to fight him.
Context: Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. And she caused a great wind to spring up, and it came soughing through the house from the north-west; and the King said, "This is the sigh of the winter night." Question: Why did Sheen smile? Answer: The King had spoken her name, for she knew by that that the hour of her revenge had come.
Context: Then straightway he sought the town for the best leather, and for a goldsmith to fashion the clasps. He himself watched till it was done, so that he might learn for himself. Question: Where did Manawyddan want to go to after craftsmen banded together to slay his group? Answer: Dyved
Context: The hunter's son followed, and having come to the tree, he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part. In the course of the evening he asked his father to make him a new bow; and when he was questioned as to the use he could find for two bows, he answered that one might break or get lost. Question: What happened after the father had gone away? Answer: The boy ran to the hollow tree, and invited his little friend to come out and play; at the same time presenting to him the new bow.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Why did the Fairy love Princess Sylvia? Answer: Princess Sylvia was at once original and gentle.
Context: He was soon, having already yielded to temptation by the way, overcome by their fair looks and soft speeches, and he was not long afterward seen beating corn with the women, having entirely abandoned all further quest for his lost wife. Meantime, Bokwewa, alone in the lodge, often musing upon the discourse of the spirit-wife, who was gone, waited patiently his brother's return. Question: What did Bokwewa do after several years of waiting for Kwasynd? Answer: set out in search of Kwasynd
Context: "That's all very fine," thought the youth--he said nothing, but he thought it would be better, after all, to drive to his home, instead of down into the hideous rat-hole. And at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth's mother, and when she came the wedding festivities began. Question: When did the wedding festivities begin? Answer: when the youth's mother came
Context: When he arrived in the neighbourhood everything seemed strange. Worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles. Question: Why did everything seem strange to Farquhar? Answer: There were woods where no woods used to be, and walls where no walls used to be.
Context: When I saw I was in a man's shape I said I would take the child back to his father and mother, as I knew the grief they were in after him. I knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me, and I said I would cure him if I got a good reward. Question: Who was groaning? Answer: the old hag's son
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: How did the Princess dress herself? Answer: all in white
Context: And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "It is best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some place where we can spend the night." A man and a woman were in it, and when they saw him they said, "Bring your companions here along with you, and they will be welcome." Then Bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was. Question: Why did Conchubar tell his people to find a place to spend the night? Answer: It was night.
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: What happened when the King tried to raise himself up? Answer: He couldn't lift his head.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who lived in Telemarken, and had a big farm; yet he had nothing but bad luck with his cattle, and at last lost his house and holding. Then he knew very well that this must be one of the underground people; yet he had no fear, but invited his neighbor in to drink a glass with him, and the neighbor seemed to enjoy it. Question: What did the peasant do with what little he had? Answer: bought a bit of land that lay off to one side
Context: Once upon a time there lived at Vaero, not far from Rost, a poor fisherman, named Isaac. He wanted to get him out of the way, in order to take for himself the anchorage before Isaac's hut. Question: Why did Isaac only have a boat and a couple of goats? Answer: He was poor.
Context: At length the next day he was seen coming across the valley, and Oonagh knew that it was time to commence operations. This, to be sure, was wormwood to Finn--I mean going into the cradle in such a cowardly manner--but he knew Oonagh very well; and finding that he had nothing else for it, with a very rueful face he gathered himself into it and lay snug, as she had desired him. "I am," says she, "and I have no reason, I hope, to be ashamed of my husband." Question: What did Oonagh desire Finn to do? Answer: lie down in the cradle and cover himself up with the clothes
Context: Now Dick was more versed in giving blows than in making music. His first impulse was to seize the Sword, then, come what might, he had something in his hand to defend himself with. He blew a blast upon it, which, however, was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall. Question: What happened when Canonbie Dick choose the Horn? Answer: Thunder rolled in crashing peals through the immense hall.
Context: Once upon a time there was a strong young farmer who came home late one evening from market. He was astonished, and climbed the wall around the gardens, but there was not a human being in sight; all he saw was, at a distance, something which appeared to be a dog, looking up at the moon. Question: Who came home late one evening from market? Answer: a strong young farmer
Context: Presently it chanced that one who was there among the young men, espied in the hands of Leelinau, who had plucked it indifferently, one of the crooked kind, and at once the word "Wa-ge-min!" exclaimed the young man, Iagoo by name, and famous in the tribe for his mirthful powers of story-telling; "see you not the old man stooping as he enters the field? Question: What was Iagoo famous in the tribe for? Answer: story-telling
Context: At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, took heart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife? Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees. Question: How did the prince feel after he believed his wife died? Answer: shocked
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: How did the brother know the woman who married to the prince was his sister? Answer: The man said the woman had one hand.
Context: Then, after some time had passed, the youngest decided to set out to herd the king's hares, and told his father of his intention. Esben merely kept on saying that he wanted to go to court and serve the king, for he would not take service with any lesser master, said he. Question: Why was there nothing Esben's father could do to change his mind? Answer: Esben was set on going to court and serving the king.
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: How did the poor man feel when he saw the small woman? Answer: astonished
Context: asked Tron Valfjeldet--for that was what he called the wolves. When he had reached the farmstead, he went into the house and asked for shelter. Question: Why did Per Gynt want to go to the farmstead at Dovre? Answer: He wanted to attack the trolls.
Context: Gopani-Kufa was now as powerful as Insato the King of the Reptiles had been, and he and his family moved into the palace that stood high above the other buildings right in the middle of the town. His wife was too astonished at all these wonders to ask any questions, but his daughter Shasasa kept begging him to tell her how he had suddenly become so great; so at last he revealed the whole secret, and even entrusted Sipao the Mirror to her care, saying:  'It will be safer with you, my daughter, for you dwell apart; whereas men come to consult me on affairs of state, and the Mirror might be stolen.' Question: Who did Gopani-Kufa entrust the mirror to? Answer: his daughter
Context: If it was to make his wife contented and happy it was well worth the risk. 'You may as well come out,' said the king, 'and hear what I have to say.' Question: What did the king do after the couple did not listen to him? Answer: told them to go home
Context: "In the course of your journey you will come to a large grape-vine lying across your path. You will next come to something that looks like bear's fat, of which you are so fond. Question: Why did Kwasynd taste the frog's eggs? Answer: looked like bear's fat
Context: When the dreams had sung their song they skipped away, and Nukku Matti carried Lasse back to the boat. The wind had turned, and the boat had drifted out with one wind and drifted in with another while Little Lasse slept, and what Lasse thought was frizzling in a frying-pan was the low murmur of the waves as they washed against the stones on the shore. Question: What did Little Lasse still hear? Answer: the frying-pan frizzling at home of the fire
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: Who was the greatest pet? Answer: the goose
Context: As Dais-Imid stood looking at him--for he had been all this time invisible--he thought:  "I will let him have a view of me." The little hero of the shell replied:  "If you were to try to kill me you could not do it." Question: Who was the giant? Answer: Manabozho
Context: "You are surprised," said the Old Spirit, "to see us disappear when it thunders. The Old Spirit was the last to drop away; and, before he yielded, he went forth and had his last sport with the sand-hills, and he so tossed and vexed the poor hills, and scattered them to and fro, and whirled them up in the air, and far over the land, that it was days and days before they got back to any thing like their natural shape. Question: What did the Old Spirit do before he yielded? Answer: had his last sport with the sand-hills, and he so tossed and vexed the poor hills, and scattered them to and fro, and whirled them up in the air, and far over the land
Context: When they reached home the gates and doors had long since vanished,
and the people of the village were all strangers to them. At last he
fell at Liu Tschen's feet with great joy and cried: "Yes, you are
really my master! Question: What happened when the two scholars reached home? Answer: the gates and doors had long since vanished, and the people of the village were all strangers to them.
Context: Tom Kitten was very fat, and he had grown; several buttons burst off. When the three kittens were ready, Mrs. Tabitha unwisely turned them out into the garden, to be out of the way while she made hot buttered toast. Question: Why did several buttons burst off Tom's clothes? Answer: Tom Kitten was very fat.
Context: This transformation rather frightened Jegu, but the brownie bade him have no fears, for he would not do him any harm; indeed, he hoped that Jegu might find him of some use. We were therefore obliged to take refuge in distant lands, and to hide ourselves at first under different animal shapes. 'Well, I was that robin redbreast, and ever since I have vowed to be your friend, and as you want to marry Barbaik, I will prove the truth of what I say by helping you to do so.' Question: Why did brownie begin to take interest in Jegu? Answer: Jegu helped brownie escape from a net.
Context: He went back in the very next hamper of vegetables; he said it was too quiet!! Question: What made Johnny Town-Mouse want to return home? Answer: It was too quiet.
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a poor tenant farmer who had a number of children whom he could feed but poorly, and had to clothe in the scantiest way. They were all handsome; but the most beautiful, after all, was the youngest daughter. Question: How were the children clothed? Answer: in the scantiest way
Context: There was once a worthy old couple who lived on the coast, and supported themselves by fishing. This son's name was Uraschimataro, which means in Japanese, 'Son of the island,' and he was a fine well-grown youth and a good fisherman, minding neither wind nor weather. Question: Where did Uraschimataro live? Answer: the coast
Context: This relieved Finn very much, for, after all, he had great confidence in his wife, knowing, as he did, that she had got him out of many a quandary before. Having everything now prepared, she sent round to the neighbours and borrowed one-and-twenty iron griddles, which she took and kneaded into the hearts of one-and-twenty cakes of bread, and these she baked on the fire in the usual way, setting them aside in the cupboard according as they were done. Question: What did Oonagh do with the iron griddles? Answer: kneaded into the hearts of one-and-twenty cakes of bread
Context: And the falcons
settled down on him, and the dogs crawled along his body. They then gathered beside him in a great throng, and
conversed with him in a strange tongue. Question: How did the scholar feel when there were little knights and horsemen in the room? Answer: surprised
Context: She then gave little spirit his dish, and he commenced eating. One of the brothers presented his face at this little window, and rolled his eye about at the boy-man in a very threatening way. Question: What did the boy request his sister to do? Answer: give him something to eat
Context: The ferny road was not so bonnie all the way as it had been at first, however. There was a sound of rushing water everywhere, and at last the grey palfrey plunged right into it; and it crept up, cold and chill, first over Thomas's feet, and then over his knees. Question: What did Thomas do to keep himself from falling off the palfrey? Answer: held onto the Fairy's ash-grey gown
Context: Then the old woman hid her behind a great cask, where she could not be seen. One of them noticed on the little finger of their victim a golden ring, and as he could not draw it off easily, he took an axe and chopped it off, but the finger jumped away, and fell behind the cask on the bride's lap. Question: What did the old woman hide the girl behind? Answer: a great cask
Context: And in this forest they met a man, strange-looking and very tall. The boys thanked the man for his kind gifts, and promised to do as he had told them. Question: Where did the two foster-brethren meet a strange looking and very tall man? Answer: a dark forest
Context: Sentaro was astonished to find that the poisonous globe-fish was served up in restaurants as a delectable dish, and hawkers in the streets went about selling sauces made of Spanish flies. He never saw any one ill after eating these horrible things, nor did he ever see any one with as much as a cold. Question: Why was Sentaro delighted? Answer: He said he would never grow tired of living.
Context: To this sacred spot Leelinau had made her way at an early age, gathering strange flowers and plants, which she would bring home to her parents, and relate to them all the haps and mishaps that had occurred in her rambles. If she wished to solicit her spirits to procure pleasant dreams, or any other maiden favor, Leelinau repaired to the Manitowok. she concluded, turning with passionate gaze to the beautiful young pines which stood waving their green beauty over her head, "shed on me, on Leelinau the sad, thy leafy fragrance, such as spring unfolds from sweetest flowers, or hearts that to each other show their inmost grief. Thither she now repaired, and, while reclining pensively against the young pine-tree, she fancied that she heard a voice addressing her. Question: Why will Leelinau go to the fairy wood? Answer: feels withdrawn from others
Context: When they were through she gave Esben a whistle which had the power that if he blew into one end, whatever he wished scattered was scattered to all the winds, and when he blew into the other, all came together again. And if the whistle passed from his possession, it would return as soon as he wished it back. Question: Why did Esben agree to sell the whistle to the chamber-maid? Answer: If the whistle passed from his possession, it would return as soon as he wished it back.
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: What did the girl do after she stopped under a grove of palm trees? Answer: told the ring that she wanted a house
Context: The nearer Letiko and the two hares came to the house the nearer also came the lamia, and when the hare was about to slip in by the house door she caught it by its little tail and tore it out. When the hare came in the mother stood up and said to it: 'Welcome, dear little hare; because you have brought me back Letiko I will silver your little tail.' Question: Why did the mother grant the hare a silver tail? Answer: because she was pleased about the fact that it had brought Letiko back
Context: When they drew up the nets they were rejoiced to see the meshes shining white, all over, with the glittering prey. In this changeful pastime the cousin ran his length, and then he fell away, murmuring parts of his song or story, into a silvery sleep; with the moon gliding through the branches and gilding his face. Question: Why did the cousin fall away? Answer: ran his length
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Who did the wolf see walking? Answer: his wife and his child
Context: She then gave little spirit his dish, and he commenced eating. One of the brothers presented his face at this little window, and rolled his eye about at the boy-man in a very threatening way. Question: How did the brothers open the door? Answer: hammered with their clubs with great fury
Context: When they retired to rest the Princess feared lest Jack should kiss her because of his prickles, but he told her not to be alarmed as no harm should befall her. When he was about to lie down in bed he would creep out of his hedgehog skin, and leave it lying at the bedside; then the men must rush in, throw the skin into the fire, and stand by till it was entirely burnt up. Question: What must the four men do when Jack my Hedgehog creeps out of his hedgehog skin? Answer: rush in, throw the skin into the fire, and stand by till it was entirely burnt up
Context: There the Tin-soldier lay, and felt a heat that was truly terrible; but whether he was suffering from actual fire, or from the ardour of his passion, he did not know. Suddenly a door opened, the draught caught up the little Dancer, and off she flew like a sylph to the Tin-soldier in the stove, burst into flames-and that was the end of her! Question: Why was the Tin-soldier in the shape of a heart? Answer: He loved the dancer.
Context: And so he took his drum, sabre, cock's feather, clasp-knife, pop-gun and air-pistol, and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves. Perhaps the very ones which killed the ram were still sitting there in a corner. Yes, it was not at all safe here, and there were no other people to be seen in the neighbourhood. Question: How did Walter feel after Jonas said he was frightened? Answer: mad
Context: Once he was resting on his bed after dinner, when suddenly two little
knights with plumes in their helmets rode into the room. On their gauntleted hands they held hunting falcons as
large as flies. Question: What did the two little knights hold on their gauntleted hands? Answer: hunting falcons
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: How was Kintaro able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters? Answer: He grew stronger and stronger.
Context: They paid strict heed to his directions, and were soon safely landed on the other shore of the river. He carefully repeated the warning that she was not to touch the crown of his head; and he was so anxious that she should take it to heart, that he went over it a second and a third time, word by word. Question: What happened when the woman disregarded the warning she had received? Answer: The crane cast her into the rapids, and shook his wings as if to free himself of all acquaintance with her.
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: Why did the bride want to buy the unfinished houses? Answer: This lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be.
Context: Suddenly Ivan's face brightened, and, looking at his wife, he said, 'Wife, why shouldn't we make a snow woman too?' 'Yes, let us do that,' said Ivan, and he took down his cap and went into the garden with his old wife. Question: Where did Ivan and Marie go to make the snow-child? Answer: garden
Context: The old poet seated himself beside his hearth, and took the little fellow on his lap. Look, the weather is now clearing up, and the moon is shining clear again through the window." Question: What is the boy's name? Answer: cupid
Context: Aduan sold his pearl, for which a merchant from foreign parts gave him an enormous sum. Once, on his mother's birthday, he danced with his wife and sang, in order to please her. Question: How did the Dragon Prince know that Aduan was a departed spirit? Answer: Aduan cast no shadow
Context: One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf. Question: Who was was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy? Answer: an old toad
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: Why was the stepmother in wonder? Answer: The son did not eat.
Context: The nails glittered like stars, and twinkled with live light as stars do in a frosty night, and the blade of it quivered like a tongue of white fire. There was a ring of flame round Tara that night, for the Fians and the warriors of Conn had torches in their hands, and all the royal buildings of Tara showed clear in the light, and also the dark serpentine course of the Boyne, which flowed past Tara on the north; and there, standing silent and alert, were the innumerable warriors of all Erin, with spear and shield, keeping watch and ward against the son of Midna, also the Four Pillars of Tara in four dense divisions around the high King, even Conn the Hundred-Fighter. Question: Why was the mantle a wonder? Answer: innumerable stars twinkled in the blue, and the likeness of clouds passed through it
Context: Once upon a time there was a prince or a duke or whatever you choose to call him, but at any rate a noble tremendously high-born, who did not want to stay at home. He at once found friends and acquaintances, no matter where he came; for whoever has a full trough can always find pigs to thrust their snouts into it. Question: Why did the duke's money grow less and less? Answer: He did not handle his money well.
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: Why did Jack prick the Princess? Answer: The King cheated on his promise.
Context: PETER got down very quietly off the wheelbarrow, and started running as fast as he could go, along a straight walk behind some black-currant bushes. He was so tired that he flopped down upon the nice soft sand on the floor of the rabbit-hole, and shut his eyes. Question: What did Peter's mother think after seeting Peter return home? Answer: She wondered what he had done with his clothes.
Context: At first Hidesato could not help feeling alarmed at the sight of this horrible reptile lying in his path, for he must either turn back or walk right over its body. He was a brave man, however, and putting aside all fear went forward dauntlessly. Question: Why did Hidesato decide to walk over the dragon's body? Answer: He was a brave man.
Context: After a time he lay down on his back, and prepared to go to sleep. But just then the ring slipped down his throat, and he had to cough, so that the ring flew out and rolled along the ground. Question: Where was the youth being kept? Answer: a great tower
Context: Now at this time there lived in Kyoto a general named Raiko, who had made himself famous for his brave deeds. Some time before this he made the country ring with his name, for he had attacked Oeyama, where a band of ogres lived with their chief, who instead of wine drank the blood of human beings. Question: What did Raiko do to make the country ring with his name? Answer: He had attacked Oeyama.
Context: Now it was just dinner time, so they all had a dinner of raspberries and cream. ' Be careful with the sugar, Otto,' said the big sister; but Otto's plate was like a snowdrift in winter, with just a little red under the snow. Question: Why did the siblings need to get two baskets full of berries? Answer: They had eaten up the raspberries and they had non left to make preserve for the winter.
Context: For a teapot, this is the same as being buried, but in the earth was placed a flower bulb. And the bulb lay in the earth, the bulb lay in me; it became my heart, my living heart, such as I had never before possessed. Question: what did the bulb burst into? Answer: a flower
Context: Day by day, these strange communings with unseen beings drew away the heart of Leelinau more and more from the simple duties of the lodge, and she walked among her people, melancholy and silent, like a spirit who had visited them from another land. The pastimes which engaged the frolic moments of her young companions, passed by her as little trivial pageants in which she had no concern. Question: What did Leelinau do when the girls played pappus-e-ko-waun? Answer: sat vacantly by
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: What did Allen do every year? Answer: burn Tara
Context: Notscha laughed and said: "I have heard tell that dragon-sinews make good cords. While they were still quarreling Notscha came running up and cried: "Father, I'm bringing along a dragon's sinew for you, so that you may bind up your armor with it!" Question: How did the Dragon-King feel when Notscha came home with his son's dragon sinew? Answer: angry
Context: And the King was astonished at her, and he began to ask her questions, for it seemed to him that the power of a great goddess of the ancient time was in her; and he asked her whence she came, and what manner was the power that he saw in her. He asked her, too, did she believe in the God of the clerics, or was she herself some goddess of the older world? Question: Why did the king ask if she believed in the God of the clerics or was some goddess of the older world? Answer: He feared her, feeling that his fate was in her hands.
Context: 'Well, since I have come at the doom of this reptile, I will ransom it of thee for seven pounds, rather than see a man of thy rank touch it. 'I will give thee four and twenty pounds to set it free,' said the bishop. Question: Why did the bishop want to save the mouse? Answer: She was his wife.
Context: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man was determined to sell him to the butcher. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he said to himself:  "Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Question: How did the monkey know he was about to be killed? Answer: The monkey was in the next room and overheard every word of the conversation.
Context: Now the king thought he had taken every precaution to protect his daughter, and went off to war. They told her to arrange matters in such wise that the king's daughter and her maid might come into disrepute, without their having anything to do with it. Question: Who was wiser than most folk? Answer: an old woman
Context: So they took him to be christened, and the parson said: 'You'll never be able to put that child in a decent bed on account of his prickles.' When the farmer came home he gave his wife and the maid the things they had asked for, and then he went behind the stove and gave Jack my Hedgehog the bagpipes. Question: What did the wife ask her husband to bring from the market town? Answer: some meat and a couple of big loaves
Context: The young men laughed at him-him, Strong Desire-who feared to walk to the river at night-time. It was easily recognized, and the young men who had scoffed at Strong Desire shrunk into the corners out of sight. Question: Why was Strong Desire placed among the first warriors of the nation? Answer: Strong Desire overcame his fear.
Context: Those who hold it are too powerful for the magician, and many have sacrificed themselves to recover it for him, but without success. He will show you the course to take, and if you feel inclined, as I see that you do, go forward, my son, with a strong heart; persevere, and I have a presentiment that you will succeed. Question: What did the old man say would happen if the magician was satisfied with Maidwa's answers? Answer: The magician would urge Maidwa to attempt the recovery of his scalp.
Context: She then set the lodge in perfect order, and, taking her bundle, she set off in search of habitations. They were blighted by the frost or hidden out of reach by the snow, for the mid-winter had come on, and poor little Sheem was obliged to leave the lodge and wander away in search of food. Question: What happened after the sister accepted proposals of marriage? Answer: She utterly forgot the abandoned boy.
Context: She made a cup of tea for Timmy; but he didn't come and didn't come. Next morning she ventured back to the nut-bushes to look for him; but the other unkind squirrels drove her away. Question: How did Goody Tiptoes feel when Timmy Tiptoes did not return home? Answer: lonely and unhappy
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: How did his father feel about Yamato? Answer: pride
Context: One spring day Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: The table on which the tin soldiers stood, was covered with other playthings, but the most attractive to the eye was a pretty little paper castle. In front of the castle a number of little trees surrounded a piece of looking-glass, which was intended to represent a transparent lake. Question: What did the tiny little lady look like? Answer: made of paper
Context: About a week passed by: then one day the Fox came into the cave, and flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted. But it was not to a christening that the sly Fox went; it was to the Keg of Butter that was buried in the sand. And as he had grumbled before, so he grumbled again; but he declared that it was his duty to go, and he went. And when the Wolf asked him the name of the child, he answered that it was a more extraordinary name than the other--"Be na Inheadnon" (Be in its middle). Question: Why did the Fox declare that it was his duty to go to the christening? Answer: He wanted to eat more butter.
Context: I am sure I'll never go there again," and then he sang and danced again as usual. He thought no more of the rat-hole, but fell to humming, and sang without stopping:        "Short before and long behind! Question: How did the youth feel to escape? Answer: happy
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a little girl called Lucie, who lived at a farm called Little-town. THE Kitten went on washing her white paws; so Lucie asked a speckled hen--  "Sally Henny-penny, has YOU found three pocket-handkins?" Question: What was inside the pocket-handkerchief? Answer: three handkins and a pinny
Context: Now he will have work enough to last him a lifetime," thought the king. The enemy shot at him as hard as they could, but their bullets did not touch him. Question: What work did the king think would last Aspenclog a lifetime? Answer: going out against the enemy
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: How will the strange men feel after giving the Abbot absolution? Answer: blessed
Context: From that day forward the princess gave her father no peace, and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady. Finally, one day, when she again brought up the matter, the king cried: "I can see you will end by having your own way about this, even though it be entirely against my will. Question: What did the princess promise her father? Answer: not let a single lament or complaint each the king's ears
Context: One day Shiro was heard barking for a long time in the field at the back of his master's house. Here he began to dig very industriously with his paws, yelping with joy all the time. Question: What will the old man do after seeing Shiro dig? Answer: help him dig
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Why did the next giant give Tom a bottle of green ointment? Answer: He had neither prayers nor catechism no more nor the others.
Context: I have taken great pains to spare you, and I really believe that I can get along without you," he replied. " "But should the paper fall into other hands, then I should have to begin to run and work all over again and that, just that, is what I would like to prevent. So they came to the conclusion that the duke should put the scrap of paper in its little box and bury it seven ells underground, beneath a stone that had grown there and would remain there as well. Question: Why did the duke bury the scrap of paper in its little box even ells underground? Answer: to prevent someone else from finding it and forcing Lasse to begin to run and work all over again
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' But though I can't take money,' says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.' Question: What did Saint Kavin tell the king to do after the king agreed to his proposal? Answer: call down the king's goose here
Context: So the wanderer turned his steps to the loft, which was at the top of the storehouse, and there he found the wooden chest, so old that it looked as if it were dropping to pieces. He opened the paper, not knowing what it might contain, and was astonished to find that it was the acknowledgment of a large debt that was owing to his father. Question: What was the man's name? Answer: Jose
Context: It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill, for Walter got a seat on the load, while Caro ran barking beside them. Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with all his might while they were going through the wood. Question: What did Walter ask Jonas when they came to the mill? Answer: if there had been any wolves in the neighbourhood lately
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: What did the old man tell the Prince to remind his father about? Answer: his debt
Context: All traces of the warrior had disappeared, and in the shining surface only a beautiful lady looked back at him. They were talking of the news which had recently been carried to them, that the King's son had entered their country with a large army determined to exterminate their band. Question: Why did the two chiefs feel afraid? Answer: They had heard of the young warrior's renown.
Context: Years passed away, and at last the linen was so worn it could scarcely hold together. " Now I am finer than ever, and who can tell what fine things I may have written upon me? Question: What happened to the linen after it fell apart? Answer: it was made into paper
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: What was forever heard? Answer: the sound of the hammer and husky bellows
Context: "I will not sell it at all, either for gold or for money," answered the maiden. "Well, what do you want for it, if you will not sell it either for gold or for money?" Question: What did the maiden want in exchange for the apple? Answer: to speak to-night to the prince who lived there
Context: "Faith," said Finn, "beautiful; and how are you, Oonagh--and how did you sport your figure during my absence, my bilberry?" "Why, avourneen," said Finn, putting in his answer in the proper way, "never the thing but the purest of love and affection for yourself. Finn spent two or three happy days with Oonagh, and felt himself very comfortable considering the dread he had of Far Rua. Question: Why did Finn give a short good-humored cough and laugh heartily? Answer: to show Oonagh how much he was delighted that she made herself happy in his absence
Context: Towards morning, a thick fog covered the whole country round, and a keen wind arose, so that the cold seemed to freeze one's bones. While the snowy carpet of the earth appeared as if covered with diamonds, from which countless lights gleamed, whiter than even the snow itself. Question: What did the frost make the trees and bushes look like? Answer: a forest of white coral
Context: As he opened his eyes, in a dreamy way, he saw the kettle near him. The fire flickered, and made light and shadow; but nowhere was Wassamo to be seen. Question: How did the cousin feel when he could not find Wassamo? Answer: greatly troubled
Context: Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both their breasts; and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle and trampling and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised. He spread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, and he could see her plain; but such a hullabulloo rose as if there was an earthquake, and he found himself surrounded by horrible-looking things, roaring at him and striving to pull his wife away. Question: What did the poor man hear as he was walking? Answer: a faint jingle and trampling and rustling
Context: "Just feel how heavy it is," said he, taking it up by the wings. " For heaven's sake," said he, "help me out of this scrape, I am a stranger in these parts. Question: Why did the peasant warn that Hans could be thrown into a dark hole? Answer: because the pig he had was stolen
Context: The dog and the pheasant carried home the plunder, and thus Momotaro returned triumphantly to his home, taking with him the devil chief as a captive. Question: How did Momotaro return home? Answer: triumphantly
Context: Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed. I am now obliged, whether I like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, and marry her daughter. Question: What did the youngest princess do after she found the a Beautiful brown bear's hide? Answer: stole back, and went down to the parlour fire, and put the hide into the middle of it till it was all fine ashes
Context: The giant, giving vent to his feelings with many loud rumbling words, looked sharply around to see whether he could discover any tracks. When he of the little shell came in sight of the lodge, the stranger was in front of it, employed in skinning his beavers. Question: How did Dais-Imid not leave any tracks behind? Answer: tiptoed
Context: A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself, and he vowed that he would work her ill. When he was admitted to his presence, he knelt down and touched the ground with his forehead, and the king bade him stand up and tell wherefore he had come. Question: Why was the brother angry at his sister after he heard she was doing well? Answer: The girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself.
Context: As he went along he saw branches broken off and strewed behind, which guided him in his course; for these had been purposely cast along by the daughter. She immediately caught his eye, and knowing that it was her father come for her, she all at once appeared to relent in her heart, and, asking for the royal dipper, said to the king, "I will go and get you a drink of water." Question: What did Aggo's daughter use as signs to her father? Answer: twigs
Context: Betimes in the morning, after having eaten from the magic kettle, which sung a sort of farewell chant on its way from the fire-place to its station in the corner, he set off on his journey. After a considerable delay, there came forward out of the corner from which it had spoken, a great heavy-browed and pot-bodied kettle, which advanced with much stateliness and solemnity of manner till it had come directly in front of the magician, whom it addressed with the question:  "What shall we have, sir?" "No, we will have whortleberries," rejoined the kettle, in a firm voice. Your kindness and bravery of heart have restored me to my former shape. Question: Why did the magician and Maidwa form a strong attachment to each other? Answer: Maidwa gave the magician his scalp back.
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush and the fox, the sly-boots, and the hopping hare, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you up as well," said she, and seized the wolf and ate him up, too. Question: Why did the cat eat up the wolf? Answer: She was hungry.
Context: But though the knight rode very fast the ogre ran faster, and to his disappointment he found himself unable to overtake the monster, who was gradually lost to sight. Stooping to pick it up he found that it was one of the ogre's huge arms which he must have slashed off in the fight. Question: How did Watanabe feel when he found himself unable to catch up to the ogre? Answer: disappointment
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived in the little back room. His father, it is true, was of the opinion that there might be other work that would suit him better, for whoever was to herd hares would have to be quick and spry, and not a sleepy-head. Question: Why did the man think Peter might not be suited for the shepherd job? Answer: Peter was a sleepy-head.
Context: cried the Welsh giant, who was ashamed to be outdone by such a little fellow as Jack, "hur can do that hurself"; so he snatched up the knife, plunged it into his own stomach, and in a moment dropped down dead. Jack, having hitherto been successful in all his undertakings, resolved not to be idle in future; he therefore furnished himself with a horse, a cap of knowledge, a sword of sharpness, shoes of swiftness, and an invisible coat, the better to perform the wonderful enterprises that lay before him. Question: What did Jack furnish himself with? Answer: a horse, a cap of knowledge, a sword of sharpness, shoes of swiftness, invisble coat
Context: It was sent to the printer, and all the words written upon it were set up in type to make a book,--or rather many hundreds of books,--for many more persons could derive pleasure and profit from a printed book than from the written paper; and if the paper had been sent about the world, it would have been worn out before it had half finished its journey. Question: Why will the paper be happy about being turned into a book? Answer: it's always happy to be turned into something new
Context: It seemed to him that he had almost reached it when his foot tripped. He fell down, down, down, into a Fairy Parlour, far under the ground. Question: What were the two little elderly women doing? Answer: grinding corn between two flat millstones
Context: "Very well," answered the master; "if you can grow three bags full I will give one to the little boy." She always lay in the sunniest part of the pastures, and drank from the clearest part of the brook, and ate only the young and juicy shoots of grass and the tenderest of the sheep-sorrel. Question: How did the Black Sheep try to grow the finest and heaviest fleece? Answer: laid in the sunniest part of the pasture
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. But they were so deeply in love with their brides that they altogether forgot they were also to bring back a princess for their young brother who had stayed at home. If I did not have you," he told his youngest, "I would not keep on living, so sad am I at having lost your brothers." " Question: Why was the king sad when his sons did not return? Answer: He loved them very much.
Context: At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him, and poured out questions as to what had happened, and why he looked like that. Question: What did the prince ask to see? Answer: their graves
Context: There was once a Fox and a Wolf, who set up house together in a cave near the sea-shore. Although you may not think so, they got on very well for a time, for they went out hunting all day, and when they came back at night they were generally too tired to do anything but to eat their supper and go to bed. Question: Why couldn't the Fox and the Wolf live together forever? Answer: the slyness and greediness of the Fox
Context: I see that you can no longer live without me, and I thank you. At times he had to crawl, at others he had to stoop, for the way was very narrow. But when it grew better, he walked in advance, and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off. Question: Who sprang up in front to drive the coach? Answer: two rats
Context: The Fox was asked to another christening; this time at a place some twenty-five miles along the shore. And when the Wolf asked him the name of the child, he answered that it was a more extraordinary name than the other--"Be na Inheadnon" (Be in its middle). Question: How did the Fox feel after he ate more butter? Answer: happy
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: Who heard the music? Answer: a King
Context: The chief of the thieves pretends to be an oil merchant in need of Ali Baba's hospitality, bringing with him Forty thieves hiding in oil jarsmules loaded with thirty-eight oil jars, one filled with oil, the other thirty-seven hiding the other remaining thieves. Again, Morgiana discovers and foils the plan, killing the thirty-seven thieves in their oil jars by pouring boiling oil on them. Question: What does the chief of thieves pretend to be? Answer: an oil merchant.
Context: The girl soon grew to be a woman, but the boy increased in stature very slowly. When he was able to walk, his sister made him a little bow and arrows, and hung around his neck a small shell, saying:  "You shall be called Dais Imid, or He of the Little Shell." Question: What did the girl hang around her brother's neck? Answer: a small shell
Context: When she had finished, they both sat staring at him with their mouths open. "No," said Samuel Whiskers, "make it properly, Anna Maria, with breadcrumbs." Question: What three things are required to make a kittle dumplying roly-poly pudding? Answer: dough, a pat of butter, rolling-pin
Context: The servants and conceited folk at the big house began to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge, and to annoy her with their impudence. and the servants that he used to be boasting to were soon flocking from the castle, and grinning, and huzzaing, and beating tunes on tongs and shovels and pans; and he cursing and swearing, and the eyes ready to start out of his head, and he so black in the face, and kicking out his legs behind him like mad. Question: Who began to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge? Answer: the servants and conceited folk at the big house
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: What did Hyacinthia ask the head cook to let her do? Answer: make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan
Context: The insignia of the great Japanese Empire is composed of three treasures which have been considered sacred, and guarded with jealous care from time immemorial. These are the Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata, the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami, and the Murakumo-no-Tsurugi or the Sword of Murakumo. Question: What was considered the most precious of the three treasures? Answer: the sword of Murakumo
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: Who was counting out his bag of money? Answer: two Afghan horsedealers
Context: At this Oonagh set up a loud laugh of great contempt, by the way, and looked at him as if he were only a mere handful of a man. When Finn saw this he felt a certain description of moisture, which shall be nameless, oozing out through every pore of his skin; but Oonagh, depending upon her woman's wit, felt not a whit daunted. Now, Finn says there's a fine spring well somewhere under the rocks behind the hill there below, and it was his intention to pull them asunder; but having heard of you he left the place in such a fury that he never thought of it. Question: What did Far Rua do after he cracked his right middle finger? Answer: stooped down, tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length
Context: Then the young Prince answered with a proud smile:-"I am the son of the King and my name is Yamato, and I have been sent by my father as the avenger of evil to bring death to all rebels! No longer shall robbery and murder hold my people in terror!" Question: What was the new name given to Yamato? Answer: Yamato Take
Context: But the ram was still angry, and refused to say anything, so the sheep stopped talking and began to scatter over the pasture and eat the tender, new grass. By and by the Black Sheep wandered near the lane, and looking up, saw the little boy watching it through the bars. Question: Why did the ram not answer the other sheep's question? Answer: The ram was still angry.
Context: 'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp--'it's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. ' Well, when the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the King. The goose flew round every individual acre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, bein' let into the secret by Saint Kavin, who was mighty cute. Question: What did the horse-eel do to the goose? Answer: killed the King's goose
Context: One sunshiny morning, when there were just two or three promising clouds rolling moistly about the sky, Aggo prepared to go out a-fishing; but before he left the lodge he reminded her of her strange and industrious lover, whom she had never seen. With this excellent advice, Aggo hopped off in high spirits; but he had scarcely reached the fishing-ground when he heard a voice singing, at a distance:      Man with the leg tied up,     Man with the leg tied up,         Broken hip--hip--             Hipped. Question: Why did Aggo fear that the daughter would be taken away while he went fishing? Answer: He would not be there to protect her.
Context: 'Well--as I said--afther flutterin' over the wood a little bit, to plaze herself, the goose flew down, and bit at the foot o' the King, as fresh as a daisy, after flyin' round his dominions, just as if she hadn't flew three perch.' When she let at his foot he patted her an the head, and ma vourneen,' says he, 'but you are the darling o' the world.' Question: What did the goose do after fluttering over the wood a bit? Answer: The goose flew down, and bit at the foot of the King.
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What did the ducks do after they were tired of disporting themselves? Answer: They swam to the shore.
Context: "Come hither, come hither," they shouted; "come tread a measure with us, and afterwards we will drink to thee out of our Monarch's loving cup." And, strange as it may seem, the spell that had been cast over the young Earl was so powerful that, in spite of his fear, he felt that he must obey the eldrich summons, and he threw his bridle on his horse's neck and prepared to join them. Question: Who stepped out from among his companions and approached him? Answer: an old and grizzled Goblin
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: Who was the strange men's Abbot? Answer: Matthias
Context: Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank. When Kotei found his march checked he was wild with disappointment, for he had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him. Question: What stopped Kotei from overtaking the rebel? Answer: the river
Context: Aggo, relieved of his pursuers, hopped off a hundred steps in one, till he reached the stream, crossed it in a twinkling of the eye, and bore his daughter in triumph to his lodge. In the course of time Aggo's beautiful daughter married a very worthy young warrior, who was neither a buffalo-king nor so much as the owner of any more of the buffalos than a splendid skin robe which he wore, with great effect, thrown over his shoulders, on his wedding-day. Question: How did Aggo feel when the king fled? Answer: relieved
Context: Little Miss Muffet's father was a big banker in a big city, and he had so much money that the house he lived in was almost as beautiful as a king's palace. She had a maid to dress her hair and a maid to bathe her, a maid to serve her at table and a maid to tie her shoestrings, and several maids beside. Question: Who was Little Miss Muffet's father? Answer: a big banker
Context: Just then another King's son passed by, carrying a great bag on his back. When the hare heard these kind words he felt very grateful to the man. The little animal hid nothing from his friend, but told him frankly how he had played a trick on the crocodiles and how he had come across the bridge they had made, thinking that he wished to count their number. Question: Why did the hare not answer the man? Answer: He remembered that he had been deceived by one very like the man who now spoke to him.
Context: When Jack had got his bagpipes he said, 'Daddy, do go to the smithy and have the house cock shod for me; then I'll ride off and trouble you no more.' His father, who was delighted at the prospect of getting rid of him, had the cock shod, and when it was ready Jack my Hedgehog mounted on its back and rode off to the forest, followed by all the pigs and asses which he had promised to look after. Question: Where did Jack my Hedgehog ride off to? Answer: the forest
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: Why was the King and Queen lamenting before the Prince's journey? Answer: They did not want the Prince to leave.
Context: "If they buy three cords of birch-wood," said the witch,--"but it must be full measure, and they must not bargain for it--and throw the first cord into the water, billet by billet, when the first breaker strikes, and the second cord, billet by billet, when the second breaker strikes, and the third cord, billet by billet, when the third breaker strikes, then it is all up with us!" At last they asked him whether he were afraid, because fall was at hand, and said he would rather hide behind the stove, hanging to mother's apron strings. Question: Why did the cabin-boy agree to come with them? Answer: He wanted to prove he was brave.
Context: A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself, and he vowed that he would work her ill. When he was admitted to his presence, he knelt down and touched the ground with his forehead, and the king bade him stand up and tell wherefore he had come. Question: Who did the brother ask to see? Answer: the king
Context: So that evening the Fox was absent, and the Wolf was alone in the cave. And if the Wolf could have seen him in the darkness he would have noticed that he was laughing to himself. And when the Wolf asked him the name of the child, he answered that it was a more extraordinary name than the other--"Be na Inheadnon" (Be in its middle). Question: What will the Fox do a few days later? Answer: go to another christening
Context: "I'll catch on behind," said Miss Muffet, gleefully, "just as I've seen the boys do in the city. By and by she lay back upon the straw and fell asleep; and the farmer, who did not know she was in his cart, drove on for many miles, until at last he stopped at a small wooden farm-house, and jumped to the ground. Question: How did Miss Muffet feel after jumping into the cart? Answer: happy
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: What was proclaimed about the King of Dublin's daughter? Answer: The King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years.
Context: He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves, he handed it to his guest. "I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. Question: What happened after the young man breathed? Answer: flowers sprang up all over the plains
Context: He again exacted a promise of secresy, and went back to his tree. The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. Question: Why did the hunter's son tell his father to hunt all day? Answer: So that he has more time to play with his friend.
Context: There was a man called Odshedoph, or the Child of Strong Desires, who had a wife and one son. Early in the evening he returned with a deer, and, being weary and athirst, he asked his son, whom he called Strong Desire, to go to the river for some water. Question: Where did Odshedoph withdraw his family to? Answer: the neighborhood of a distant forest, where game abounded
Context: Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them. Thus did the wife find consolation in work during the lonely days of her husband's absence. Question: What did the wife and child do when they saw the man? Answer: flew to meet him from the other side
Context: Suddenly, close behind them, they heard a sigh, then a groan. ' With the first breath of flame that swept over her when she ran with her friends Snowflake had melted away, and a little soft haze floating upwards was all that remained of her. Question: What did the young girls do when they heard a sigh, then a groan? Answer: turned hastily and looked at each other
Context: So the wife was very anxious while she helped her husband get ready for the long journey, knowing what an arduous task lay before him. The little girl was the only one to smile, for she was ignorant of the sorrow of parting. Question: What did the wife do because her husband had to leave? Answer: helped her husband get ready for the long journey
Context: Then he opened the shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke small little bits of sticks for the rowers' seats. Some of the shells got broken, some remained whole, and when all were ready Lasse had twelve boats. Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water, and they floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over the waves of the ocean. Question: How did Little Lasse make the rowers' seats? Answer: opened the shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke small little bits of sticks
Context: As he went his way he met a little hare, who stopped to look at him, and asked:  'Where are you going, my friend?' 'Mount on my back,' said the little hare, 'and I will conduct you.' Question: Who did the youngest son meet? Answer: a little hare
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: Why did the seal catcher feel delighted that the stranger made a large order? Answer: an order meant a large sum of money to him.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Who awoke before dawn of day? Answer: the Abbot of Inisfalen
Context: At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, took heart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife? Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees. Question: Why did the king feel uncomfortable? Answer: He prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife.
Context: Lisa ate, Aina ate, and in a little while their baskets were full. So they put the baskets down on the ground and began to fill their pinafores, and it was not long before their pinafores were full, too. Question: How will Aina and Lisa feel after they realize they lost their way home? Answer: anxious
Context: Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the Emperor Yuhi. This rebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which he fought to this end. Question: How did Shiyu feel to fool the royal army? Answer: pleased
Context: We flew, and we flew, and we flew, until we came right over the wide ocean. Ah, my lord,' said I to the goose, for I thought it best to keep a civil tongue in my head anyway, 'fly to land, if you please.' ' Mr. Goose, why, then, to be sure, I'm a man to be pitied among you.' Question: Where were the geese flying to? Answer: Arabia
Context: West of Gingdschou, two hundred miles away, is another lake, whose god is named Tschauna, and who performs many miracles. While he was in office it chanced that in the fifth month clouds suddenly arose in the sky, piling themselves up like mountains, among which wriggled dragons and serpents; they rolled up and down between the two seas. Question: Why did Dschou Bau take the blame upon himself? Answer: While he was in office it chanced that in the fifth month clouds suddenly arose in the sky.
Context: The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: What did the females do at night? Answer: occupied themselves in procuring wood, which they carried to the lodge and then restored the implements exactly where they had found them
Context: When they were all assembled and seated in a circle, the old chief took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians around, to see if any thing would happen when they smoked. From that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor, and as soon as White Feather had, at the request of the company, faithfully recounted his history, the old chief, who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived, ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs; which being done, the whole six giants were at an end, and never troubled that neighborhood again, forever after. Question: Why did the old chief fill his pipe and passed it to the Indians around? Answer: to see if any thing would happen when they smoked
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: Why could no one kill the giant? Answer: He hasn't his heart about him.
Context: Towards Christmas-time quite little trees were cut down, some not as big as the young fir-tree, or just the same age, and now it had no peace or rest for longing to be away. We have looked in at the windows and seen them planted in the middle of the warm room and adorned with the most beautiful things-golden apples, sweet-meats, toys and hundreds of candles.' Question: Why did the little trees keep their branches? Answer: Their branches were used to hang decorations.
Context: 'Oh, we will take care of her,' cried the girls gaily, and they ran off to the woods. And sometimes they thought they heard a call, but it was never the voice of Snowflake. With the first breath of flame that swept over her when she ran with her friends Snowflake had melted away, and a little soft haze floating upwards was all that remained of her. Question: What will happen to Snowflake after the young girls lit a fire of dry grass? Answer: melt
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. As the day was very hot and sultry he commanded his servants to pitch tents in the open field, and there await the cool of the evening. I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The voice replied, 'Very well; but it will go ill with you if you fail to keep your promise.' Question: How did the King feel when he couldn't get the vessel? Answer: embarrassed
Context: Yet, in about a year's time nearly all his children had died. In the terror of his heart he turned to the Lord of the Great Mountain. Question: What was Hu-Wu-Bau's father's duty as the field god? Answer: bring happiness to his family
Context: Well, my child, I am sorry to say that all I know of him is that he lives in the castle that is east of the sun and west of the moon, and that you will probably never get there. And finally she gave the maiden the golden reel, for, said the old woman, it might be useful to her. Question: Who might be able to tell the maiden where the castle was? Answer: the woman's neighbor
Context: "You have won your desire of the Great Spirit," said the beautiful stranger. " I know this, and now tell you what you must do to benefit your family and your people. In the morning, Wunzh's father came to his lodge with some slight refreshments, saying:  "My son, you have fasted long enough. Very confident was Wunzh, all the time, that his friend would again come to life. Wunzh partook sparingly of the meal that had been prepared for him, and once more mingled in the cares and sports of the family. He was, however, careful to conceal the charge of the earth which he had from his father. The summer was drawing toward a close, when one day, after a long absence in hunting, Wunzh invited his father to follow him to the quiet and lonesome spot of his former fast. Question: What will happen after Wunzh follows the stranger's instructions? Answer: Wunzh will accomplish his object of doing good to his fellow-creatures
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: Who was out at six o'clock in the morning? Answer: a bellman
Context: She had tried by amiability and obedience to show her goodwill and to mollify the new wife, and to break down that wall of prejudice and misunderstanding that she knew generally stood between step-parents and their step-children. She was also confused at being found looking at the mirror, for she had never told any one of her mother's last promise, but had kept it as the sacred secret of her heart. Question: Why was the girl surprised to see her father? Answer: He generally sent of her when he wished to speak to her.
Context: Then he went home and ate his dinner, laid down and pretended to fall asleep at once. Then his wife went to his shaving-kit, took out his razor, went softly up to him and took hold of his chin with her hand. Question: Why did the man fly up? Answer: He thought his wife was trying to cut his throat.
Context: 'More wood,' cried Guddhi, and they all ran and gathered wood and heaped it on the flames, which leaped and roared and sputtered. And the fishes gathered round it as they had done on the top of the cliff, and found the flames as hot as before, and that fire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever. Question: What did the fishes find after gathering around the fire? Answer: found the flames as hot as before, and that fire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever
Context: "But they have not lost their only son," said the Roman Candle; "no misfortune has happened to them at all." But when I think that they might lose their only son, I certainly am very much affected." Question: How did the other fireworks feel about the Rocket? Answer: dislike
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: Who met the King on the threshold? Answer: the Queen
Context: Anna Maria was about to argue the point, when all at once there began to be other sounds up above--the rasping noise of a saw; and the noise of a little dog, scratching and yelping! "Come away at once and help me to tie up some mutton bones in a counterpane," said Anna Maria. " Question: What is hidden in the chimney? Answer: half a smoked ham
Context: Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat, making clothes for her children. However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, as they would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king's. Question: Who had lived at the unfinished houses for many years? Answer: his brother
Context: 'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck, and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest. So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some pieces of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes. Question: Who was skilled in magic more than most fishes? Answer: Guddhu the cod
Context: Quick it was, and when the duke looked out there was a countless host of soldiers drawn up around the castle. When the king's people arrived, they stopped and did not dare advance. Question: Why did the king's people not dare advance? Answer: There was a countless host of soldiers drawn up around the castle.
Context: Their parents stuffed the empty sack with three rotten vegetable marrows, an old blacking-brush and two decayed turnips. McGREGOR came back and picked up the sack, and carried it off. Question: What did the parents stuff the empty sack with? Answer: three rotten vegetable marrows, an old blacking-brush and two decayed turnips
Context: The sheep did not like this very well, for every once in a while the shears would pull the wool and hurt them; and when they were sheared they felt very strange, for it was almost as if someone took off all your clothes and let you run around naked. None of them were in a very good temper this morning, although the sun shone so warmly and the grass was so sweet, and as they watched the farmer and his man carry their wool up to the house in great bags, the old ram said, crossly,  "I hope they are satisfied, now that they have stolen from us all our soft, warm fleece." Question: Where did the farmer carry their wool? Answer: the house
Context: When the wicked monkey saw that he had killed the crab he ran away from the spot as fast as he could, in fear and trembling, like a coward as he was. Now the crab had a son who had been playing with a friend not far from the spot where this sad work had taken place. Question: Why did the crab run away after he saw he killed the crab? Answer: He was a coward.
Context: She then set the lodge in perfect order, and, taking her bundle, she set off in search of habitations. They were blighted by the frost or hidden out of reach by the snow, for the mid-winter had come on, and poor little Sheem was obliged to leave the lodge and wander away in search of food. Question: What did Sheem do after eating all of the food left in the lodge? Answer: wandered about in search of the wherewithal to stay his hunger
Context: Yet, in about a year's time nearly all his children had died. In the terror of his heart he turned to the Lord of the Great Mountain. Question: What happened when Hu-Wu-Bau's father was appointed as the field god? Answer: In about a year's time nearly all his children had died.
Context: Yamato Take soon reached the opposite shore and landed safely, even as his wife Ototachibana had prayed. His prowess in war was marvelous, and he succeeded after some time in conquering the Eastern Barbarians, the Ainu. Question: How did Yamato feel towards his wife after she saved him? Answer: grateful
Context: Uraschimataro was still so puzzled with the adventures that had befallen him, that he waited in a dazed condition for what would happen next. she asked, smiling, looking all the while as fair as the sun itself. Question: How did Uraschimataro feel when he reached the palace of Ringu? Answer: puzzled
Context: I must thank you for coming to visit me: I have been expecting you for a long time. I am to receive a large dower, and am not yet ready for the wedding. Question: What did the rat think the youth was doing there? Answer: to win her
Context: Li Dsing was much frightened, and thought it was an apparition. When Li Dsing saw the child he took pity on him and did not slay him, while his wife began to love the boy dearly. Question: What did Li Dsing's friends do when three days had passed? Answer: came to wish Li Dsing joy
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: Why did the stepmother send her daughter with the son? Answer: see where he was getting the food
Context: IT is said that the effect of eating too much lettuce is "soporific." They had a large family, and they were very improvident and cheerful. Question: Why did Benjamin borrow cabbages from Flopsy's brother? Answer: because there was not always quite enough to eat
Context: For a while the brother was eager to learn, and keenly attended to his duties as the provider of the lodge; but at length he grew weary of their tranquil life, and began to have a desire to show himself among men. Bokwewa objected; but his brother overruled all that he said, and in spite of every remonstrance, he departed on his travels. Question: How did Kwasynd feel about their tranquil life? Answer: weary
Context: When they drew up the nets they were rejoiced to see the meshes shining white, all over, with the glittering prey. In this changeful pastime the cousin ran his length, and then he fell away, murmuring parts of his song or story, into a silvery sleep; with the moon gliding through the branches and gilding his face. Question: What did the cousin do while Wassamo cooked? Answer: laid at his ease upon the other side of the fire
Context: When she entered they all bid her welcome, and made her sit down. Then the old toad said:            'Little green toad whose leg doth twist,            Go to the corner of which you wist,            And bring to me the large old kist.' Question: What did the toads do when the Princess came in? Answer: bid her welcome, and made her sit down
Context: Also, there was Mrs. Tittlemouse's bedroom, where she slept in a little
box bed! Mrs. Tittlemouse was a most terribly tidy particular little mouse,
always sweeping and dusting the soft sandy floors. Question: What did Mrs. Tittlemouse do when a beetle came into her house? Answer: clattered her dustpan
Context: He came to the river of nine bends, whose green waters flowed along between two rows of weeping-willows. So the Dragon-King sent out a Triton, terrible to look upon, who was to find out what was the matter. Question: Why did the Dragon-King send out a Triton? Answer: He wanted to find out what was the matter.
Context: There is a lone moor in Scotland, which, in times past, was said to be haunted by an Elfin Knight. And although men might search every inch of the ground, no trace of him would be found, and with a thrill of horror the searching party would go home again, shaking their heads and whispering to one another that he had fallen into the hands of the dreaded Knight. Question: Who was only seen at rare intervals, once in every seven years or so? Answer: an Elfin Knight
Context: The comrade swung himself up in back again, and the trip home did not take long. But this time the princess kept her nose in the air, and was so haughty and snappish that she hardly condescended to glance in the youth's direction. Question: What did the comrade do after the princess set out for home? Answer: swung himself up in back again
Context: So the youth served out his three years, and did better than they had expected him to do. Now when his master was to go to do his buying, he set out as early as possible in the morning. " Question: What happened to the youth's clothes over the three years? Answer: They were worn in.
Context: BUT when the other squirrels heard that song, they rushed upon Timmy Tiptoes and cuffed and scratched him, and upset his bag of nuts. THEY caught him and dragged him up the very same tree, where there was the little round hole, and they pushed him in. Question: How did Timmy Tiptoes respond after the other squirrels pushed him in the hole? Answer: He lay quite stunned and still.
Context: "His sentence has already been spoken," answered the other. " As a punishment he will be sent forth again into the world as an animal." Question: What did the spirit want to do after Dung's mortal life ended? Answer: obtain a place for Dung as constable in the Nether World
Context: 'The men of the town are so silly that we can make them believe anything we please,' said they. 'Well, here is a gold ring,' replied he, 'and I will give it to the one amongst you who can make her husband believe the most impossible thing.' Question: What did the women need to do to receive the gold ring? Answer: make her husband believe the most impossible thing
Context: The devil would gladly have won back some of the tribute Murmur had forced from his grandmother for the king. And after he had won all the devil had with him, the latter had to give him some of the gold and silver that was in the castle. Question: What happened because Murmur had won all the devil had? Answer: The devil had to give him some of the gold and silver that was in the castle.
Context: Now the old lady fell ill, and it was said that she would not rise from her bed again. But when she wanted to go to the right, the shoes danced to the left, and when she wanted to dance up the room, the shoes danced down the room, down the stairs through the street, and out through the gates of the town. Question: What happened when Karen wanted to dance to the right? Answer: the shoes danced to the left
Context: 'Martin,' said the old man suddenly, 'I feel that I cannot live much longer. You, as the eldest, will inherit this hut; but, if you value my blessing, be good to your mother and brothers.' Question: Who did the old man say would inherit his hut? Answer: Martin
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: What did the Weendigo tell the people in the evening? Answer: He should go out a hunting.
Context: Meanwhile he had a word of advice for his son-in-law Wassamo. " My son," said he, "some of these Manitoes that I have asked to come here are of a very wicked temper, and I warn you especially of that Island Spirit who wished to marry my daughter. Question: Why did the Old Spirit give a caution to Wassamo? Answer: He cared for Wassamo.
Context: The bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare looked at him to see what he would do now. Kintaro went from one tree to another that grew along the river bank. Question: How was Kintaro able to pull the tree by its trunk? Answer: He was very strong.
Context: It should be explained that two young mice, who were waiting on the others, went skirmishing upstairs to the kitchen between courses. Several times they had come tumbling in, squeaking and laughing; Timmy Willie learnt with horror that they were being chased by the cat. Question: Why did the two mice come tumbling in, squeaking and laughing? Answer: They were being chased by the cat.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Where did the Abbot of Inisfalen pray? Answer: under the dewy green leaves
Context: Timmy Willie, who had lived all his life in a garden, was almost frightened to death. Presently the cook opened the hamper and began to unpack the vegetables. Question: What did the cook do after she opened the hamper? Answer: unpacked the vegetables
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: Why did the young man begin to cry? Answer: His entertainer melted away.
Context: So he took the required oath with all due solemnity, holding up his fin as he swore, and all the other seals crowded round him as witnesses. Then, with one spring, they reached the top of the cliff, where the great black horse was waiting for them, quietly nibbling the green turf. Question: Why was there a sigh of relief after the words were spoken? Answer: He was the most noted seal catcher in the North.
Context: "Close your flowers and fold your leaves," said the old willow. " Even human beings dare not do that, for in the midst of the lightning one may look straight into God's heaven. Question: Why shouldn't they look at the lightning? Answer: The sight strikes human beings blind.
Context: Hidesato and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to the balcony, and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great balls of glowing fire coming nearer and nearer. The Dragon King stood by the warrior's side trembling with fear. Question: What did Hidesato ask for to kill the centipede? Answer: his bow and arrows
Context: He did not sleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow. The mother ran out from the kitchen to the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch. Question: Why did the monkey not sleep much that night? Answer: thinking of the morrow
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: What did the King find floating in the well? Answer: a golden jug
Context: The hunter's son followed, and having come to the tree, he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part. In the course of the evening he asked his father to make him a new bow; and when he was questioned as to the use he could find for two bows, he answered that one might break or get lost. Question: How did the hunter feel about his son's request for another bow? Answer: pleased
Context: On the third day the magistrate came by, and also saw the little golden house in the forest. When he came back in the evening, he had a much bigger sack of money with him than the clerk had had, and he stood it on the bench. Question: What did the Master Girl ask the magistrate to fetch? Answer: the calf
Context: The dog soon came into the lodge, and she set before him the dish of grape-juice. He rose up when he got into the open air, stood upon his hind legs, and looked about. " Question: What did the drink do to Spirit-Iron? Answer: taught him to see the truth of things as they were
Context: After talking with them a little while, he discovered that whenever he addressed the one on his left hand, the tree would tremble as before and settle down to its former place; but when he addressed the one on his right hand, it would again shoot upward. Onwee then descended, and learning that these sisters had a brother living with their father, who had shared all together in the spoils of all such as the wicked sisters had betrayed, and who would now pursue him for having put an end to their wicked profits, Onwee set off at random, not knowing whither he went. Question: Why did Ownee set off at random? Answer: learned that these sisters had a brother living with their father who would now pursue him for having put an end to their wicked profits
Context: The wild boar got up in a dreadful fright, gave one loud grunt and disappeared into the wood. Now it was the bear's turn to be alarmed, and with a mighty growl he jumped down from the oak and fell right on the top of the wolf and killed him as dead as a stone. Question: Why did the cat scramble the bear's face? Answer: because she was stratled by the wild boar and thought that the bear's face was a tree
Context: 'Here, my poor darling,'says he, 'is your eldest child, and there,' says he, pointing to a woman that was looking on with a smile on her face, 'is the eagle that carried him away.' He never stopped, and she never stopped, and as the sun was setting he turned up another lane, and there they found their little daughter. Question: What did the husband give to the youngest princess on the second day? Answer: scissors
Context: There the comrade took the ball of golden twine and flung it against the hill on the other side of the river with such force that it bounded back. Just as he was at the last thread, the witches rushed up, hissing, flung themselves into the water so that the foam splashed high, and snatched at the end of the thread. Question: How did the comrade and the youth reach the other side of the river? Answer: used the golden twine to build a bridge
Context: "The trouble is with my sons, for they cannot bear the smell of a Christian," answered the man. " "No, I only met three cormorants, who were sitting on a piece of drift-wood and croaking," was Isaac's reply. Question: What will the man give Isaac after inviting him inside his house? Answer: food and water
Context: With these words the Lady raised her hunting-horn, and blew a loud and piercing blast; and, as she did so, a marvellous change came over her again; for her ugly ash-covered gown dropped off her, and the grey in her hair vanished, and she appeared once more in her green riding-skirt and mantle, and her face grew young and fair. Immediately the sound of the horn rang out, the doors of the Castle flew open, and the King hurried out to meet the Queen, accompanied by such a number of Knights and Ladies, Minstrels and Page-boys, that Thomas, who had slid from his palfrey, had no difficulty in obeying her wishes and passing into the Castle unobserved. Question: What did Thomas do after the King hurried out to meet the Queen? Answer: obeyed her wishes and passed into the Castle unobserved
Context: Ko-ko of course bethought him of the bones, for that was just what, as he knew, had occurred to Onwee Bahmondang under the like circumstances. He immediately called on several guardian spirits whom he knew of by name, and requested them to convert him into a squirrel. He then desired that they would turn him into an opossum; an application which met with the same luck as the previous one. he thrust it into the trunk of the tree, and would have indulged himself in a rest; but being no more than a common fish-bone, without the slightest savor of magic in it, it snapped with Ko-ko, who came tumbling down, with the door of the lodge which he had shaken loose, rattling after him. " Question: Why didn't Ko-ko have the slightest confidence in any one of the guardians? Answer: The guardians did not help him climb the tree.
Context: 'Don't talk so load, or you'll wake her,'said the old toad. ' She can't run away from us there, whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live.' Question: Why did the old toad place Thumbelina on a great green leaf surrounded with water? Answer: She can't run away from them there.
Context: The inn-keeper received him with the words: "Are you Master Dung, and have you come from the bay of Kaiutschou?" "I am the man," answered Dung, alarmed, "how do you happen to know me?" Question: Where did Dung go when he reached Taianfu? Answer: an inn
Context: Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods with nobody near her but her little dog; for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning at her door. The cradle was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and ornaments were of the same precious stuff. Question: How did the woman know the man brought her the meat? Answer: She saw him even though she lived alone.
Context: Both of them have made a botch of their errand," said he, "and are causing the bride to wait in vain!" And they took an oath that they would never again seek a bride for the river-god. Question: What did Si-Men do after the sorcerers and witches pleaded for grace? Answer: sent the girl back to her home
Context: ONCE on a time the cock and the hen went to the nut mountain, and they agreed beforehand that whichever of them should find a nut was to divide it with the other. So the cock ran as fast as he could to the brook, and said, "Brook, give me some water, the hen is up yonder choking with a big nut stuck in her throat." Question: What did the cock and the hen agree upon? Answer: whichever of them should find a nut was to divide it with the other
Context: Then the Squibs danced all over the place, and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet. "Good-bye," cried the Fire-balloon, as he soared away, dropping tiny blue sparks. Question: What did Rocket tell himself to explain why he was not set off? Answer: They are reserving him for some grand occasion.
Context: Ribby settled Duchess in an armchair before the fire, and went out and hurried to the village to look for the doctor. All the village could see that Ribby was fetching the doctor. Question: What was conspicuous about the doctor? Answer: He hopped so fast that Ribby had to run.
Context: But his guest replied: "Oh no, I am already surfeited and satisfied! In two years' time you will go to Taianfu, the city near the Great Mountain, and there we will meet again." Question: Where did Dung need to go in two years? Answer: Taianfu, the city near the Great Mountain
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: What happened because Sentaro was screaming? Answer: Sentaro was awakened.
Context: "I can't help myself," said Hans, "I have this great lump to carry. "When you want to go fast," said he, "you must click your tongue and cry 'Gee-up!'" Question: Why did Hans complain about carrying the lump of gold? Answer: It was very heavy.
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: What did the Magician command after losing his patience? Answer: the door to be burst open
Context: Uraschimataro was still so puzzled with the adventures that had befallen him, that he waited in a dazed condition for what would happen next. she asked, smiling, looking all the while as fair as the sun itself. Question: What did the princess do to convince Uraschimataro to stay with her? Answer: promised that he should never grow old, neither should his beauty fade
Context: Saying this, he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse and went out to his work in the fields. Her face was seamed with many wrinkles, and was as brown as leather, and every now and then she stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face. Question: Why was the badger in great distress? Answer: He did not at all like the idea of being made into soup.
Context: But the Wheelbarrow was of a different opinion; and the Wheelbarrow was looked upon as of some consequence, for he considered himself a quarter of a coach, because he went about upon one wheel. "I must submit to your notice," he said, "that the name 'maiden' is common enough, and not nearly so refined as 'hand-rammer,' or 'stamper,' which latter has also been proposed, and through which you would be introduced into the category of seals; and only think of the great stamp of state, which impresses the royal seal that gives effect to the laws! Question: why did the wheelbarrow consider himself a quarter of a coach? Answer: because he went about on one wheel
Context: Moreover, in his time the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin were scattered and destroyed, the folk of the underworld and of my fatherland; and to avenge the wrong and loss he wrought on them I slew the man I loved. And they digged a grave lengthways across the foot of the wide grave of Murtough and his spouse, and there they laid the maiden who had wrought them woe. Question: Why did Sheen slay Murtough? Answer: Murtough slew her father, and her mother and sister were slain along with him, in the battle of Cerb upon the Boyne, and there was none of my house to avenge their death.
Context: Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank. When Kotei found his march checked he was wild with disappointment, for he had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him. Question: Why was Kotei disappointed? Answer: He had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him.
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: How did the youngest princess feel after her husband disappeared in the morning? Answer: sad
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. But he liked to sing and to dance, and that is what he did all day long, and far into the night as well. Question: What type of person was the woman's son? Answer: lazy and slow
Context: Your kindness and bravery of heart have restored me to my former shape. The magician, to the deep regret of Maidwa, never once alluded to the Red Swan in all their conferences. Question: Why did Maidwa constrain his feelings? Answer: The magician never alluded to the Red Swan.
Context: So Murmur Goose-Egg began to chop fire-wood, and hewed to the line in such fashion that the chips fairly flew. Before long he had chopped up all that there was, kindling wood and building wood, beams and boards, and when he was through with it, he came and asked what he was to do now. Question: What did Murmur Goose-Egg do after he finished chopping fire-wood? Answer: came and asked what he was to do now
Context: Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife, who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. At first the girl told him that so few were left that she could not spare any; but when she found that he belonged to her brother, she changed her mind, and went out to the tree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there. Question: Why did the brother's wife want to eat more pumpkins? Answer: It was the nicest she had ever eaten.
Context: "But is it certain that there is no one here who can overhear us?" "No, you can see there's not," said the others, the wives of the first and second quartermasters. " Question: How did the captain's wife plan to get rid of their husbands? Answer: turn themselves into breakers, wash them into the sea, and sink the ship with every man on board
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: Why did the King cry when he saw the newborn? Answer: He knew he had to give up the child to the voice.
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Where was the capital of the prince's patrimony? Answer: Dun Dalgan
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: What did the Elves and their King do after Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup? Answer: stirred in their sleep, and half sat up
Context: "I should like to live," he said to himself, "till I am five or six hundred years old at least, free from all sickness. But ever since that time Mount Fuji has been said to be the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermits who had the secret of the elixir. Question: What will Sentaro do because he fears death and illness? Answer: look for the "Elixir of Life"
Context: Not far from Baalsberg, near Filkestad in the Willandsharad, there is a hill in which a giant named Stompe Pilt once used to live. It happened one day that a goat-herd was driving his flock up the hill in which Stompe Pilt dwelt. Question: What was a goat-herd doing one day? Answer: driving his flock up the hill in which Stompe Pilt dwelt
Context: He was lying in the road beating his wings, and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved. " I have not much food, nor are you likely to be able to help me much," said the king's son, "but still I can give you a little, for it is easy to see you need it." Question: Why did the king's son agree to help the raven? Answer: It was easy to see he needed it.
Context: "It's quite clear that they love each other," said the little Page, "as clear as crystal!" The little Princess had never seen a firework in her life, so the King had given orders that the Royal Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage. Question: Why did no one dare tell the King he played the flute badly? Answer: He was the King.
Context: One day Ali Baba is at work collecting and cutting firewood in the forest, and he happens to overhear a group of forty thieves visiting their treasure store. When the thieves are gone, Ali Baba enters the cave himself, and takes some of the treasure home. Question: Where is the treasure stored? Answer: a cave
Context: The ferny road was not so bonnie all the way as it had been at first, however. There was a sound of rushing water everywhere, and at last the grey palfrey plunged right into it; and it crept up, cold and chill, first over Thomas's feet, and then over his knees. Question: What did Thomas and the Queen of Fairies ride on? Answer: her palfrey
Context: It is a great pity you did not ask me for the cakes if you wanted them. The old man's garden was suddenly transformed into a beautiful picture of spring. Taking up his position here, the old man sat down and scattered the ashes right and left all over the branches and twigs. Question: What will happen after the old man scatters the ashes? Answer: The tree will revive.
Context: And when the monk replied that he had seen nothing, the other continued: "Bonze, you should not lie! Of flying ogres there are thousands of varieties, who bring ruin to people everywhere. Then he once more mounted his horse, which carried him up the hollow trunk and out at the end of the tree. Question: Why did the monk did not dare to deceive the stranger? Answer: The stranger told him that the girl was a flying ogre.
Context: Once upon a time there were three brothers who had lost their parents, and since the latter had left their sons nothing upon which to live, they had to wander out into the world, and seek their fortune. The two older brothers prepared for the journey as well as they were able; but the youngest, whom they called "Mike by the Stove," because he was always sitting behind the stove whittling, they did not want to take with them. Question: What did the others call the youngest brother? Answer: Mike by the Stove
Context: said the astonished Kumaso, forgetting war and council and everything as he looked at the gentle intruder. He beckoned to the disguised Prince and bade him sit down and serve them with wine. Question: What did Kumaso bade the disguised prince to do? Answer: sit down and serve them with wine
Context: Once upon a time there lived a man in the forest of Dovre whose name was Ola Storbaekkjen. In the summer he dealt in cattle at Valders and the fjords, and fought with the fjord-folk and the hill people of Halling and Valders, and always had the best of it. Question: What did folk sometimes do to Ola? Answer: scratched him a bit with the knife
Context: "You can stand on the runner of my sledge," said the man, "for I have a horse that covers a mile in twelve steps." He could not tell exactly where it was, but when they began to hurry on again, he thought that he spied a skull on a pole. Question: How did John feel when he heard the man was headed to Vaage? Answer: sad
Context: She at once set forth; and she was no sooner out of sight than the young man and his dog, Spirit-Iron, blowing a strong breath in the face of the Toad-Woman's four children (who were all bad spirits, or bear-fiends), they put out their life. cried out the young man; and immediately the berries spread like scarlet all over the path, for a long distance; and the old Toad-Woman, who was almost as fond of these berries as she was of fat bears, could not avoid stooping down to pick and eat. Question: How did the Toad-Woman feel when she saw her children standing up by the door-posts with fat in their mouths? Answer: astonished
Context: So he took pen and ink and wrote something, and when he had done Jack my Hedgehog pointed out the way and the King got safely home. Then the King remembered Jack my Hedgehog, and he told his daughter how he had been obliged to give a written promise to bestow whatever he first met when he got home on an extraordinary creature which had shown him the way. Question: How did the King's daughter feel when she saw her father? Answer: delighted
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: Who was lurking in the hidden lake, eager for prey? Answer: the awful Monster
Context: The terrified crew lowered the sails and looked after the rudder, and worked for their dear lives' sake, but all in vain-the storm only seemed to increase in violence, and all gave themselves up for lost. Then the faithful Ototachibana rose, and forgetting all the grief that her husband had caused her, forgetting even that he had wearied of her, in the one great desire of her love to save him, she determined to sacrifice her life to rescue him from death if it were possible. Question: How did the crew feel because of the storm? Answer: terrified
Context: Long, long ago in Kyoto, the people of the city were terrified by accounts of a dreadful ogre, who, it was said, haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by. The missing victims were never seen again, so it was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal, who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also. Question: What happened because the missing victims were never seen again? Answer: It was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal.
Context: Presently it chanced that one who was there among the young men, espied in the hands of Leelinau, who had plucked it indifferently, one of the crooked kind, and at once the word "Wa-ge-min!" He turned suddenly where she sat in the circle, pensively regarding the crooked ear which she held in her hand, and exclaimed:  "Leelinau, the old man is thine!" Question: Who was believed to be the corn thief? Answer: the old man
Context: When evening came, the other tin soldiers were all placed in the box, and the people of the house went to bed. The tin soldiers rattled in their box; they wanted to get out and join the amusements, but they could not open the lid. Question: What happens when the people go to bed? Answer: the playthings begin to play games together
Context: He did think that first he ought to speak to his daughter about it. Then the man went back to the bear again, and they both agreed that the white bear should return again the following Thursday and get his answer. Question: Why did the daughter change her mind? Answer: Her parents convinced her.
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: Who was an aspen-tree? Answer: Aspenclog's mother
Context: Now they wanted to go home to the father of the king's son; but he would not hear of the Master Girl's going afoot, since he did not think this fitting for either of them. " No, do not do so, for when you get home to the castle you will forget me, I know that positively," said the Master Girl. " Question: What did the Master Girl think the king's son would do when he returned home? Answer: forget her
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What beast will Morraha take? Answer: whatever beast, handsome or ugly, puts the head in the bridle
Context: Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. Question: How did the monkey plan to beat the hare? Answer: get hold of the hare's long ear
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. Let us follow him, and see from what part of the world he cometh." Question: How did Earl St. Clair feel after his companion left him? Answer: concerned
Context: Early in the morning a labourer came that way, saw him, went on the ice and with his wooden shoe broke it up and carried the Duckling home to his wife, and there he was brought to life again. The children wanted to play with him, but he thought they meant to hurt him, and in his fright he dashed right into the milk-pan and made the milk splash out into the room. Question: Why did the duckling dash right into the milk-pan and make the milk splash out into the room? Answer: The children wanted to play with him, but he thought they meant to hurt him.
Context: Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed to tremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant. It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquer Midna. Question: Who was coming before his time? Answer: the man who is to conquer Midna
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: What did the old woman do to warm her son? Answer: fixed him in the ash-hole, near the fire, and piled the warm ashes about him
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: Why did the couple let the lady have their child? Answer: They could not find a got-father.
Context: Now the poor labourer was but a clumsy dancer, and he held back with a shamefaced air. For in a moment he found himself waltzing and whirling, sliding and bowing, as if he had done nothing else but dance all his life. Question: What did the Fairies do all night long? Answer: danced and danced as if they were mad
Context: As she spoke she too stuck fast, and was not able to utter a word. When Kieva, the wife of Pryderi, found that neither her husband nor his mother returned to her, she was in such sorrow that she cared not whether she lived or died. Question: Why did Kieva and Manawyddan move to England? Answer: It was easier for us to live there.
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. That was the story that every person had, but they did not know who was the champion who did it. When his master came home that evening the lad was in the house before him. On the next day, when the gentleman was gone, he went to the caher of the giants, and he took with him another steed and another suit and the sword of the third giant, and when he came to fight with the dragon the people thought it was another champion who was in it. Question: Why were the people unable to keep the champion? Answer: The champion wanted to leave.
Context: So he was brought to a spot surrounded by extensive buildings. He entered, and was greeted by a crowd of boys who were all about fourteen years of age. Then she taught him the dance of the flying thunders of Tsian-Tang River, and the music that calms the winds on the sea of Dung-Ting. Question: What will the Prince of the Dragon's Cave do the following day? Answer: hold a review of his dancers
Context: He bade his sister make a snare, for, he informed her, that he meant to catch the sun. But after awhile she brought forward a deer's sinew which the father had left, and which she soon made into a string suitable for a noose. At last she thought of the bird-skin that was left over when the coat was made; and this she wrought into a string. He immediately began to run it back and forth through his hands as swiftly as he could. Question: Why was the girl's hair strong enough to catch the sun? Answer: It was in a tight braid.
Context: Then they took the neat little cradle and swam away with it; but Thumbelina sat alone on the great green leaf and wept, for she did not want to live with the clammy toad, or marry her ugly son. The little fishes swimming about under the water had seen the toad quite plainly, and heard what she had said; so they put up their heads to see the little girl. Question: Why did the little fishes want to help Thumbelina? Answer: They thought Thumbelina was so pretty that they were very sorry she should go down with the ugly toad to live.
Context: So they rested there that night, and in the morning Conchubar was the first to rise up. And she bade Conchubar welcome, and she told him all that had happened her, and that she had called him there to bring herself and the child back to Emain Macha. Question: Who did Conchubar suggest should bring up the child? Answer: Finchoem
Context: The cousin of Wassamo recovered heart, and sang once more his sad or mirthful chants, just as the humor was upon him; but he kept close by Wassamo, and watched him in all his movements. He made it a point to ask many questions of the country he came from; some of which his cousin replied to, but others were left entirely in the dark. Question: How will the village feel towards Wassamo's wife habit of disappearing at every thunder-storm? Answer: confused
Context: "Far away," continued the statue in a low musical voice, "far away in a little street there is a poor house. One of the windows is open, and through it I can see a woman seated at a table. Question: Who was the woman seated at the table that the Happy Prince saw? Answer: a seamstress
Context: The Great Spirit has listened to my voice, and sent us something new, and henceforth our people will not alone depend upon the chase or upon the waters." Having done this, he directed him how the ear must be held before the fire till the outer skin became brown--as he complexion of his angel friend had been tinted by the sun--while all the milk was retained in the grain. Question: What did Wunzh communicate to his father? Answer: the instructions given to him by the stranger
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. Question: Why was the father surprised when he came to the door of the little lodge? Answer: He heard his son talking to himself.
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Who remained a pagan? Answer: Murtough
Context: When Ribby had laid the table she took a jug and a blue and white dish, and went out down the field to the farm, to fetch milk and butter. Ribby put on her shawl and bonnet and went out again with a basket, to the village shop to buy a packet of tea, a pound of lump sugar, and a pot of marmalade. Question: Why did Ribby go to the village shop? Answer: to buy a packet of tea, a pound of lump sugar, and a pot of marmalade
Context: We are not far from Africa'--and as he said that they were there. They anchored at the mouth of a great river where the shores were as green as the greenest velvet. Question: Where did Little Lasse and the dream-boy go after Little Lasse did not want to land in Polynesia? Answer: Africa
Context: Thus Kintaro's fate was settled, and the general decided to start for the Capital at once, taking Kintaro with him. When they learned that he was going away for good they followed him to the foot of the mountain to see him off. Question: How did the animals feel when they heard Kintaro was leaving for good? Answer: sad
Context: About mid-day the company began to assemble; and such a company Wassamo had never looked on before. This, Wassamo was informed, was a Spirit who had charge of the affairs of a tribe in the North, and he was as pleasant and cheery a Spirit as one would wish to see. Question: What did Wassamo hear? Answer: a great rumbling and roaring, as of waters tumbling over rocks
Context: Then the King could contain himself no longer, but rushed towards her, saying,  "You are no other than my dear wife!" Then she answered,  "Yes, I am your dear wife," and in that moment, by the grace of heaven, her life returned to her, and she was once more well and strong. Question: What happened to the fawn when the witch was burned? Answer: he took human shape again
Context: I cannot draw you a picture of Peter and Benjamin underneath the basket, because it was quite dark, and because the smell of onions was fearful; it made Peter Rabbit and little Benjamin cry. The sun got round behind the wood, and it was quite late in the afternoon; but still the cat sat upon the basket. Question: Why was Mr. Benjamin Bunny prancing along the top of the wall of the upper terrace? Answer: He was looking for his son.
Context: One sunshiny morning, when there were just two or three promising clouds rolling moistly about the sky, Aggo prepared to go out a-fishing; but before he left the lodge he reminded her of her strange and industrious lover, whom she had never seen. With this excellent advice, Aggo hopped off in high spirits; but he had scarcely reached the fishing-ground when he heard a voice singing, at a distance:      Man with the leg tied up,     Man with the leg tied up,         Broken hip--hip--             Hipped. Question: Who did Aggo suspect was singing? Answer: the king of the buffalos
Context: They were just turning in at the gate to the barn of Farmer Potatoes. They went into the barn, and hauled their parcels with a bit of string to the top of the haymow. As for Farmer Potatoes, he has been driven nearly distracted. Question: Why do Moppet and Mittens hang up the rats' tails at the barn door? Answer: to show how many they have caught
Context: Now when the girl had grown old enough to make distinctions, and had acquired some sense, it chanced that her foster-mother once wished to take a journey. " When her foster-mother came home, she was much grieved to find that the star had flown out, and was so annoyed with her foster-child that she threatened to send her away. Question: What happened because the girl could not resist opening the door? Answer: out flew a star
Context: When he came near enough for the soldiers to see him, they sent to ask whether he had a mind to attack them. "I don't care a fig for these blueberries," said Murmur Goose-Egg, and feasted on quite at ease. Question: What did Murmur Goose-Egg do before he wanted to attack the soldiers? Answer: eat
Context: His surname meant "Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he was still very far removed from being poor. One day, without any reason whatsoever, the thought of death and sickness came to him. Question: How did Sentaro get his money? Answer: inherited a small fortune from his father
Context: One Christmas the two women agreed that they would ride to Christmas night mass, and whichever one of them woke up at the right time was to call the other, for in those days there was no such thing as a watch. It was a piece of this kind that the woman took and put in her pocket, in order to eat it underway. Question: Why did the woman get up hurriedly and dress herself? Answer: She might be able to ride with the other woman.
Context: you ought to be rather ashamed to have put such a great hero to flight!' 'It was only a dog, then if it had been a wolf I certainly should have killed him....'  'If Walter would listen to my advice, and boast a little less, and do a little more,' said Jonas, consolingly. ' Question: How did Walter feel after he realized the wolf was his dog? Answer: very foolish
Context: When the ashes in the censer fly up into the air without any cause,
and are scattered about, it is a sign that great danger is
threatening. Suddenly the Queen of Heaven appeared at the
tip of the banner-staff. Question: How did the seamen know that there was great danger? Answer: When the ashes in the censer fly up into the air without any cause, and are scattered about.
Context: The tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company. They filled their pipes--and huge pipes they were--and such clouds they blew, that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night, in all the country round about, several hours before its time. Question: How was the tobacco divided? Answer: in equal shares among the company
Context: 'God save you,' says the King (for the King was a civil-spoken gentleman, by all accounts), 'God save you,' says he to the young man. 'Oh, that's a folly to talk,' says the King, 'because myself and my goose is private friends,' says he, 'and no one could tell you,' says he, 'barrin' the fairies.' For I'd have you know,' says he, 'that I don't keep the likes o' such company.' Question: Why was the king surprised Saint Kavin knew about the goose? Answer: The king and the goose were private friends.
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: How did Per Gynt not know what his foot had struck? Answer: It was so dark he could not see his hand before his eyes.
Context: The son took this fatherly advice all in good part, except that portion which enjoined upon him to abstain from staying his stomach; but over that he made a number of wry faces, for the brother of the two wicked sisters had, among numerous noble gifts, a very noble appetite. Onwee finding that he was closely followed, climbed up into one of the tallest trees, and shot forth the magic arrows with which he had provided himself. Question: What did Onwee transform himself into? Answer: the skeleton of a moose that had been killed
Context: A famous hunter who lived in a remote part of the North had a fair wife and two sons, who were left in the lodge every day while he went out in quest of the animals whose flesh was their principal support. While thus engaged, they began to take note that a young man visited the lodge during their father's absence, and that these visits were constantly renewed. Question: What did the two sons note? Answer: A young man visited the lodge during their father's absence, and that these visits were constantly renewed.
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: What will the club do as long as Tom keeps from sin? Answer: He'll win every battle he ever fights with it.
Context: He shed tears of pity to see that his brother had laid aside the arms of a hunter, and that he was beating corn with the women, indifferent to the fate and the fortune of his lost wife. After deliberating for a time, and spending several days in a severe fast, he set out in the direction where he saw that a light shone from the sky. Question: What did Bokwewa see Kwasynd doing at the village? Answer: lay aside the arms of a hunter
Context: 'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp--'it's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. ' Well, when the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the King. The goose flew round every individual acre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, bein' let into the secret by Saint Kavin, who was mighty cute. Question: Why were the king and Saint Kavin best friends? Answer: The poor old King was doting.
Context: "I don't mind," bleated a young lamb named Frisky, as it kicked up its heels and gambolled about upon the grass; "it's nice to have all that heavy wool cut off my back, for I sha'n't have to carry it around wherever I go." Have you any idea what you look like, all sheared down to your skin? Question: Why did Frisky not mind having his wool cut off? Answer: He sha'n't have to carry it around where he goes.
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: Why did the giant promise anything? Answer: The giant was not able to put a stir out of himself.
Context: He proceeded toward the lodge, met the female as had been foretold to him, and became an elk. Now this woman was the sixth giant, who had assumed this disguise to entrap White Feather. They each secretly hoped to engage his affections, and each had built a lodge in the border of the village encampment. The giant, supposing that whoever possessed the white feather possessed also all its virtues, went out upon the prairie to hunt, hallooing aloud to the game to come and be killed; but the great hubbub he kept up scared them away, and he returned at night with nothing but himself; for he had shouted so lustily all day long that he had been even obliged to leave the mighty halloo, with which he had set out, behind. Question: Why did the giant take the plume from White Feather? Answer: to take White Feather's form
Context: The top saw it flying high in the air, like a bird, till it would go quite out of sight. But the ninth time it rose in the air, it remained away, and did not return. Question: Why did the ball leap higher than before whenever it touched the earth? Answer: either because it longed to fly upwards or from having a Spanish cork in its body
Context: By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived, when he was not travelling with his father and mother. They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tails for the baby's mother, who felt at last that she was safe and at peace. Question: Where did the snake live? Answer: the house in a tree
Context: When they had lived a few years happily together, the King's mother, who was a wicked old woman, began to slander the young Queen, and said to the King:  'She is only a low-born beggar maid that you have married; who knows what mischief she is up to? If she is deaf and can't speak, she might at least laugh; depend upon it, those who don't laugh have a bad conscience.' Question: How did the King's mother feel about the girl? Answer: dislike
Context: Once upon a time there was a master mariner who had the most unheard of good fortune in all that he undertook; none had such splendid cargoes, and none earned so much money as he did, for everything seemed to come to him. Thus he sailed for many years with cargoes of lumber, and even went as far as China, and earned money like hay. Question: Who was after the master mariner? Answer: Sir Urian
Context: He was much surprised to see the little golden hut, glittering and sparkling there in the forest, and was still more surprised at the girl within the hut. And all would have liked to have known where he had come from, but he said not a word, for he was ashamed. Question: What did the bailiff do once he let go of the poker? Answer: ran like a madman
Context: Now it happened that one Thursday evening late in the fall there was a terrible storm raging outside. It was pitch dark, and it rained and stormed so that the house shook in every joint. Question: Why was it pitch dark? Answer: A terrible storm raged outside.
Context: So they sent to the smith, and he forged a club of two hundred-weights. Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy himself, and forged himself a club of thirty hundred-weights. Question: Why did Murmur Goose-Egg go into the smithy himself? Answer: The smith and all his workmen together could not forge a larger one.
Context: After a while Paul decided to go to the castle and herd the king's hares. He was at once taken into service, but the hares all ran away across the hills, though he pursued them, and worked away like a shepherd dog in the sun, and when he came back to the castle in the evening minus his hares, there stood the king with the knife in his hand, cut three broad strips from his back, rubbed in pepper and salt, and flung him into the snake-pit. Question: How did Paul's father feel about him going to the castle? Answer: skeptical
Context: "You know nothing at all," replied the yard-dog; "but then, you've only lately been patched up. It will come again to-morrow, and most likely teach you to run down into the ditch by the well. Question: Why did the dog go into his kennel? Answer: to sleep
Context: asked the giant, who by now had grown old and blind, and sat warming himself before a log fire. "Give me your hand, so that I may feel whether there is still warm blood to be found in the Swedish land," said the giant. Question: What had the giant become by now? Answer: old and blind
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: What did the Emperor do because the little Princess played well? Answer: sent many beautiful gifts to the little Princess
Context: And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles and helper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, by mine own unaided power, cannot work the like. She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout, and she took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff-balls of the woods, and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats, and with these she fed Murtough and the hosts. Question: What happened to the water of the Boyne Sheen took? Answer: She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout.
Context: Wassamo in the mean while had lost the sound of his cousin's voice in the rich simmer of the kettle; and when its music pleased his ear the most, as announcing that the fish were handsomely cooked, he lifted the kettle from the fire. The cousin murmured, but made no reply; and Wassamo stepped softly about with the dancing fire-plume lighting up the gloom of the forest at every turn he made. He crouched down and pushed his cousin, saying, in a low voice, "Awake! His cousin seemed lost to all earthly sense and sound; for he lay unmoved, smiling, in the calm light of the moon. Question: Why was Wassamo trying to wake his cousin up so frantically? Answer: His cousin did not wake up.
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: Why was the wolf able to ride swiftly? Answer: His meal had made the wolf so strong.
Context: When he came up to the shore he was surprised to see four large, tall men, lying on the ice, spearing fish. Seeing these four faces, as if they had been one, the little spirit or boy-man said to himself:  "Four in one! Question: How will the boy feel when the four men mock him? Answer: unhappy
Context: The wild boar got up in a dreadful fright, gave one loud grunt and disappeared into the wood. Now it was the bear's turn to be alarmed, and with a mighty growl he jumped down from the oak and fell right on the top of the wolf and killed him as dead as a stone. Question: What did the fox put on the stove? Answer: mice
Context: "Oh, no, I am not at all lonely," said the hare, "but as it was such a fine day I came out here to enjoy myself. Then the hare said:  "Mr. Crocodile, you live in the sea and I live on this island. Question: What did the crocodile and hare do together? Answer: play
Context: THERE was once a miller who had a beautiful daughter, and when she was grown up he became anxious that she should be well married and taken care of; so he thought,  "If a decent sort of man comes and asks her in marriage, I will give her to him." But the girl did not seem to love him as a bride should love her bridegroom; she had no confidence in him; as often as she saw him or thought about him, she felt a chill at her heart. Question: How did the miller feel when his daughter was grown up? Answer: anxious that she should be well married and taken care of
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What happened because the thirtieth little duck couldn't come to land? Answer: It stretched its neck up timidly, gazed wildly around, and then dived under again.
Context: Then she had to sit down and remain seated, for the chair had power to hold fast all that approached it. And when she heard that she promised to let him have the sword, if he would release her. Question: Why did the witch not want to give the Three-Sisters Sword? Answer: It was rare.
Context: Once, when the wicked Emperor Tsin Schi Huang had conquered all the other kingdoms, and was traveling through the entire empire, he came to the homeland of Confucius. All his officials advised him not to do so, but he would not listen to them. Question: What did Emperor Tsin Schi Huang wish to do after he found Confucius's grave? Answer: wished to have it opened and see what was in it
Context: One summer, a long, long time ago, the folk of Melbustad went up to the hill pastures with their herd. So the maiden remained alone in the hills with no other company than a dog. Question: How did the maiden feel when she saw her sweetheart? Answer: suspicious
Context: Thou wilt see it all tilled and peopled, as it was long ago.' 'Pryderi has had the knockers of the gate of my palace hung about him. Question: What did Manawyddan see after the bishop released the spell? Answer: saw growing in the fields, and cows and sheep grazing on the hill-side, and huts for the people to dwell in
Context: In a little lodge at a beautiful spot on a lake shore, alone with his sister, lived a boy remarkable for the smallness of his stature. Many large rocks were scattered around their habitation, and it had a very wild and out-of-the-way look. Question: What was the boy remarkable for? Answer: the smallness of his stature
Context: I have no doubt that you have been in the country and seen a very old farmhouse, with thatched roof, and mosses and small plants growing wild upon it. An elder tree hangs over the palings, and beneath its branches, at the foot of the paling, is a pool of water in which a few ducks are sporting. Question: How is the old farmhouse described? Answer: with thatched roof, and mosses and small plants growing wild
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: What happened after Dectera heard Setanta's desire? Answer: She formed plans to detain him at home altogether.
Context: He proceeded toward the lodge, met the female as had been foretold to him, and became an elk. Soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners, he ventured to lay his head on her lap, and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber. Question: Why did the woman want to see White Feather and become his wife? Answer: She heard of his great achievements and admired him very much.
Context: She fastened his neckerchief for him, for she could do that better than he could and she could also tie it very prettily in a double bow. The road was very dusty, for many people, all going to the fair, were driving, riding, or walking upon it. Question: Where were the people on the road going? Answer: to the fair
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who lived in Telemarken, and had a big farm; yet he had nothing but bad luck with his cattle, and at last lost his house and holding. Then he knew very well that this must be one of the underground people; yet he had no fear, but invited his neighbor in to drink a glass with him, and the neighbor seemed to enjoy it. Question: How did the peasant know the man must be one of the underground people? Answer: The man's farm-holding was handsome and prosperous and in fine condition.
Context: A WIDOW had two daughters; one was pretty and industrious, the other was ugly and lazy. Now it happened once that as the spindle was bloody, she dipped it into the well to wash it; but it slipped out of her hand and fell in. Question: How did the step-mother feel when the girl told her about the spindle falling into the well? Answer: angry
Context: nan Question: What did the big sister want to do with the worm? Answer: blow it away
Context: In the fields around the willow grew rye, wheat, and oats--beautiful oats that, when ripe, looked like little yellow canary birds sitting on a branch. The buckwheat did not bow its head, like the rest of the grain, but stood erect in stiff-necked pride. Question: What else grew in the fields around the willow? Answer: rye, wheat, and oats
Context: Otto felt rather ashamed: he quite understood what it meant, but he thought that the old man's revenge was a noble one. The raspberry king had also remembered the big sister, for when she went in to set the table for dinner, she found eleven big baskets of most beautiful raspberries, and no one knew how they had come there, but everyone guessed. Question: Why did Otto feel ashamed? Answer: He knew that it was about hurting the worm.
Context: Then he blew himself up, and made himself so large and thick that he was quite horrible to look at. Gradually the North Wind grew weary, and became weaker and weaker. Question: What made ships founder by the hundreds? Answer: They rushed across the sea.
Context: So as soon as the sun had gone down, the King said to the huntsmen: "Now, come and show me the little house in the wood." But the King looked kindly on her, took her by the hand, and said,  "Will you go with me to my castle, and be my dear wife?" Question: What did the King say when he knocked on the door? Answer: Little sister, let me in
Context: The old woman then gave to the young man the bones which were to secure his success; and she informed him with great care how he was to proceed. He bethought him of his guardian, and invoking his aid, and changing himself into a squirrel, he mounted nimbly up again, in the hope that the lodge would not now escape him. Question: What did Onwee changed himself into? Answer: a squirrel
Context: Duchess looked very much alarmed, and continued to scoop the inside of the pie-dish. " Yes there WAS, my dear Ribby, I am sure I have swallowed it!" " Question: Why does Duchess not put any article of metal in puddings or pies? Answer: because his great-aunt died of a thimble in a Christmas plum-pudding
Context: It chanced, long years ago, that a certain horse-dealer lived in the South of Scotland, near the Border. These hills are, as all men know, the scene of some of the most famous of Thomas the Rhymer's prophecies. Question: Who was a certain horse-dealer? Answer: Canonbie Dick
Context: Then the girl went back again to the well, not knowing what to do, and in the despair of her heart she jumped down into the well the same way the spindle had gone. And she walked on through the meadow until she came to a baker's oven that was full of bread; and the bread called out to her,  "Oh, take me out, take me out, or I shall burn; I am baked enough already!" Question: What would the girl do next? Answer: shake the tree
Context: When the tempest was over, both the grain and the flowers, greatly refreshed by the rain, again stood erect in the pure, quiet air. Then the willow told them of the buckwheat's stubborn pride and of the punishment which followed. Question: What happened to the buckwheat? Answer: it was burned by the lightning
Context: A long time ago, there lived an old poet, a thoroughly kind old poet. As he was sitting one evening in his room, a dreadful storm arose without, and the rain streamed down from heaven. Question: Who was sitting in the chimney-corner? Answer: the old poet
Context: She said, "I would like to go to the place of the breaking of daylight. But," he resumed, "before we part forever, I must go and try to find what manitoes rule the earth, and see which of them will be friendly to us." Question: What did the Dais-Imid say he would be called? Answer: Puck-Ininee
Context: Long, long ago, there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan, a traveling monkey-man, who earned his living by taking round a monkey and showing off the animal's tricks. One evening the man came home in a very bad temper and told his wife to send for the butcher the next morning. Question: Who lived in the province of Shinshin? Answer: a traveling monkey-man
Context: They marched along as fast as they could, but still it was farther away than it seemed. They went in and sat down, and the old man laid an armful of wood and a couple of big logs on the fire, until every corner was as bright as day, and wherever they looked everything was indescribably splendid. Question: When did the prince and youth reach the prince's home? Answer: late at night
Context: Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo, a very remote part of Japan even in these days, a man and his wife. The visit to the temple when she was just thirty days old, her proud mother carrying her, robed in ceremonial kimono, to be put under the patronage of the family's household god. Question: What did the family do when the baby was just thirty days old? Answer: visited the temple
Context: He left his boy to take care of the lodge while he was absent, hunting and roaming about from place to place, striving to forget his misfortune, and searching for the wicked Weendigo. He shot another, which was lost in the same way; and returning to the lodge to replenish his quiver, he happened to espy one of the lucky arrows, which the first Weendigo had given to his father, hanging upon the side of the lodge. Question: What did the boy do while his father was out one morning? Answer: shot arrows out through the top of the lodge
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: What did the small woman command the poor man to do? Answer: put back that turf instantly
Context: Then Mr. Korbes came home, and went to the hearth to make a fire, but the cat threw ashes in his eyes. Then he was going to wipe it with the towel, but the egg broke in it, and stuck his eyelids together. Question: What happened to Mr. Korbes at the end? Answer: He reached the housedoor the mill-stone jumpted up and struck him dead.
Context: His father had a friend, and this friend held an official position in the South and offered the young man a place as secretary. So he was glad to take refuge in the Monastery of Puto, where he copied holy books for the abbot. Question: How did the young man feel when he saw that he did not have the means to return home again? Answer: embarassed
Context: "Yes, indeed," said the youth, and thrust his hand into the pocket in which he had placed it. Then, when he entered the stable, he gave the goat such a blow between the horns with it that he staggered, and asked: "At what time does the princess ride to her dearest to-night?" Question: Who told the comrade when the princess rode to her dearest? Answer: the goat
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. He, therefore, in his greedy nature, felt very envious of the crab's nice dumpling, and he proposed an exchange. Question: Why did the monkey not want the persimmon-seed? Answer: He had no use for the seed.
Context: My name is Sadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no-Raiko. Now if you really wish him to be a samurai, I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service. Question: What was Kintaro's mother's one wish of her life? Answer: seeing Kintaro a samurai before she died
Context: "Thy inheritance," answered the King, "be it great or small, and whether it lies in Ireland or beyond Ireland; and for securities I give you my son Art and Gaul mac Morna and the Chief of the Fians." Gaul and the captains of the Fianna consented to that arrangement, though reluctantly, for their minds misgave them as to who the great youth might be. Question: What did Finn do after washing his face? Answer: took from the bag that was at his girdle the instruments of divination and magic
Context: THEY got amongst flower-pots, and frames and tubs; Peter heard noises worse than ever, his eyes were as big as lolly-pops! He was a step or two in front of his cousin, when he suddenly stopped. Question: What did Little Benjamin and Peter do when they heard the noises? Answer: They hid themselves and the onions underneath a large basket.
Context: On the following Sunday they all went to church, and she was asked whether she wished to go too; but, with tears in her eyes, she looked sadly at her crutches. And then the others went to hear God's Word, but she went alone into her little room; this was only large enough to hold the bed and a chair. Question: Why did Karen say "O God! Help me!"? Answer: because she wants to walk normally
Context: When Confucius came to the earth, the Kilin, that strange beast which is the prince of all four-footed animals, and only appears when there is a great man on earth, sought the child and spat out a jade whereon was written: "Son of the Watercrystal you are destined to become an uncrowned king!" The Emperor, in jest, put on the shoes, took the staff and left the grave. Question: How did Confucius give evidence that he had foreknowledge of many things? Answer: He had a tablet that predicted Emperor Tsin Schi Huang's actions.
Context: Soon after, the goblin was waked in the middle of the night by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors and by the sound of the watchman's horn. The huckster's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket, that she might save something at least. Question: Why did the goblin wake up? Answer: a terrible noise and knocking on the window
Context: 'Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: Why did the Prince have to touch the walls of the palace? Answer: to make it look as if he built the palace
Context: When he was in his bed his wife went to him and said:  'Thou art dead.' 'Thou art,' said she; 'shut thine eyes and stir neither hand nor foot.' Question: How did the first woman make her husband believe the most impossible thing? Answer: said her husband was dead
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: How did the elder son feel after he realized his children were getting weaker? Answer: sad
Context: This the king did not wish done at all; but the princess tormented him so that finally he yielded in this as well. They were all of the same mind, but when they had carried the wood a while, it grew terribly heavy. Question: What did the wood turn into after a while? Answer: a little child
Context: Wassamo felt himself moved, he knew not how, and placed upon a couch. One spoke to him and said: "Stranger, awake, and take something wherewith to refresh yourself." I pile them up, and blow them about, and do whatever I will with them. Question: What will the Old Spirit-man do if Wassamo makes up his mind to remain? Answer: give Wassamo one of his daughters--the one who smiled on Wassamo first
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: What will Setanta do for slaying Culain's dog? Answer: Setanta will perform those services for Culain himself until a dog equally good is procured to take the place of him he slew.
Context: When the lamia was gone away, Letiko called out: 'Little hares! Then said one hare to the other: 'Listen, Letiko is calling;' and they both ran back to her as fast as they could go. Question: What did the people say when the lamia asked if they saw any pass? Answer: We are planting beans.
Context: He entered his chariot and drove to the river in festival procession. And from far and near men, women and children had flocked together in order to see the show. Question: How did Si-Men prepare for the festival procession? Answer: dressed himself in his robes of ceremony, entered his chariot and drove to the river in festival procession
Context: The young man began his journey, and soon arrived at a place where four roads met. He did not know which to choose, and tossed his cap in the air, determining that the direction of its fall should decide him. Question: Why did the young man begin to think it was a waste of time for him to hunt for the bird? Answer: He would inherit his father's goods soon.
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Where did Tom tell the wolf to go? Answer: mountains
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: Why didn't the Elves and their Kings attack Earl St. Clair? Answer: The Power of the Holy Sign restrained them.
Context: 'I will do anything that will bring me back to you,' exclaimed Uraschimataro, looking at her tenderly, but the princess was silent: she knew too well that when he left her she would see his face no more. Uraschimataro thanked her from his heart, and swore solemnly to do her bidding. He hid the box safely in his garments, seated himself on the back of the turtle, and vanished in the ocean path, waving his hand to the princess. Question: How will Uraschimataro feel when he realizes he cannot return to the palace of Ringu? Answer: lonely
Context: Soon after sunrise next day the prince's wife was standing on a little hill behind the house, when she saw a cloud of dust coming through the town. In any case they must not discover her there; so just bidding the ring prepare some food for them, she ran inside, and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face. Question: Where did the procession follow the girl to? Answer: a long dark room
Context: When he had come into the village, he told them how Wassamo had disappeared. At the cousin's request, many of the men visited the fish-fire. Question: Who looked to see Wassamo more? Answer: the parents
Context: "I am able to affirm with word of oath, that each prize--at least, those for which I voted--was given with just and proper consideration," said the old boundary post in the wood, who was a member of the committee of judges. " I always reckon the first prize by going through the alphabet from the beginning, and the second by going through from the end. Next year, the letter I will have its turn for the first prize, and the letter R for the second." " I observed the well-grown ears of the hare; it is a pleasure to me to observe how long they are. Question: Who was on the committee? Answer: mule and boundary-post
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: Why did Aggo tell his daughter to keep within doors? Answer: She would otherwise be sure to be stolen away.
Context: "God greet you, father," she said, "I had a most strange and lovely dream last night." "Be that as it may," said the princess, "but that is how I feel now; and I want a husband, and the duke is the husband I want," she concluded. Question: What happened because the princess dreamed of the duke and the new castle? Answer: She wanted a husband.
Context: She went into the lodge, and asked the woodman and his wife to take her into their service. It wasn't long till she heard how a young prince, that was just arrived, was living in the palace of the young mistress. Question: Where was the youngest princess's husband? Answer: in the palace of the young mistress
Context: 'Dan,' said the man in the moon, taking a pinch of snuff, when I was done, 'you must not stay here.' ' Faith, and with your leave,' says I, 'I'll not let go the grip, and the more you bids me the more I won't let go--so I will.' ' Question: Why did Daniel think the moon and all would fall? Answer: The man on the moon gave the door such a great bang after him.
Context: When Jack had got his bagpipes he said, 'Daddy, do go to the smithy and have the house cock shod for me; then I'll ride off and trouble you no more.' His father, who was delighted at the prospect of getting rid of him, had the cock shod, and when it was ready Jack my Hedgehog mounted on its back and rode off to the forest, followed by all the pigs and asses which he had promised to look after. Question: What will Jack my Hedgehog do after his father has the house cock shod? Answer: ride off and trouble his father no more
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a little fat comfortable grey squirrel, called Timmy Tiptoes. TIMMY TIPTOES sat out, enjoying the breeze; he whisked his tail and chuckled--"Little wife Goody, the nuts are ripe; we must lay up a store for winter and spring." Question: What was the name of Timmy Tiptoes' wife? Answer: Goody
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: Who did Tom want to speak to? Answer: the big divel of all
Context: The crane grew large enough for him to ride on it with comfort. The bird never stopped for rest or food, but as it was a paper bird it doubtless did not require any nourishment, and strange to say, neither did Sentaro. Question: How long did it take to reach the island? Answer: several days
Context: He, to his horror, recognised his own hunting knife with which he had struck the seal in the morning, and which had been carried off by the wounded animal. They implored him not to put himself about, for no harm would befall him, and they would love him all their lives long if he would only do what they asked him. Question: What happened after the seal catcher begged for mercy? Answer: They crowded round him, rubbing their soft noses against his fur to show their sympathy, and implored him not to put himself about.
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: Why did the prince want the maiden to be his bride? Answer: She was so beautiful.
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: What happened after the servants found the door locked? Answer: They knocked.
Context: Cinderella brought the trap to her, and in it there were three huge rats. The fairy made choice of one of the three which had the largest beard, and, having touched him with her wand, he was turned into a fat, jolly coachman, who had the smartest whiskers eyes ever beheld. Question: Why did the godmother turn Cinderella's clothes into cloth of gold and silver, all beset with jewels? Answer: Cinderella asked if she had to go there in these nasty rags.
Context: When all was ready, the dwarfs, in new green suits, came bustling in, very happy and merry, and took their seats at the table. But in a moment they all sprang up with a cry, and ran away screaming, for Barbaik had placed pans of hot coals under their feet, and all their poor little toes were burnt. Question: Why did the drawfs sprang from their seats screaming? Answer: Barabik placed pans of hot coals under their feet and all their poor little toes were burnt.
Context: Once upon a time, long, long years ago, there lived a well-to-do old couple on a homestead up in Hadeland. And whoever else had business in the woods at that time, noticed that the mountain folk had carried on its tricks with their herd. Question: Where did the couple and their son spend their summer? Answer: a pasture in the hills
Context: "Here is the thing of which the princess was thinking," said he. To be sure," said the youth, and he drew forth the head from beneath his coat, and flung it on the table so that the table and all that was on it fell over. Question: Why was the princess merry as a lark? Answer: She thought the youth would fail.
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. Question: What did the Prince have to do because he delayed visiting the Magician? Answer: three services
Context: Once Tsin Schi Huang was making a progress through the country. When he came to the plain of Bo Lang, Dschang Liang armed his people with iron maces in order to kill him. Dschang Liang controlled himself, fetched out the shoe and brought it to the old man. Question: Why did the old man give Dschang Liang the Book of Hidden Complements? Answer: Dschang Liang fetched out the shoe and brought it to the old man.
Context: Chippy Hackee was not too fat, but he did not want to come; he stayed down below and chuckled. And now Timmy and Goody Tiptoes keep their nut-store fastened up with a little padlock. Question: Why was Chippy Hackee uncomforable even after retuning home? Answer: He caught a cold.
Context: He kissed her for the last time, and was off the next minute, walking as fast as he could. Her life was almost leaving her, when, just as the sun was setting, he turned up a lane, and went into a little house. Question: How did the youngest princess feel after she realized she made a mistake? Answer: guilty
Context: Black Sheep did not reply to this, for she thought the old ram very ill-tempered and selfish, and believed he was doing wrong not to grow more wool. Finally the time came to shear the sheep again, and the farmer and his man came into the pasture to look at them, and were surprised to see what a fine, big fleece the Black Sheep had grown. Question: What did the Black Sheep think of the ram? Answer: very ill-tempered and selfish
Context: "I hope you will be patient with me," said Momotaro; "but before I begin to pay back your goodness to me I have a request to make which I hope you will grant me above everything else." "I will let you do whatever you wish, for you are quite different to all other boys!" Question: Why did the old man allow Momotaro to do whatever he wished? Answer: He was quite different to all other boys.
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: Why did the king agree do Aspenclog's condition? Answer: He thought he would always have enough for  him to do.
Context: When they came to the house of the guardian of the pass, red clouds appeared in the sky. When the guardian's servant heard how large a sum it was, he was tempted to win so wealthy a man for a son-in-law, and he married him to his daughter. Finally the guardian heard of the matter and came to Laotsze together with the servant. Question: What will Laotsze do when he finds out about his servant's actions? Answer: Laotsze will take away the life-giving talisman.
Context: Now one night he heard some one knocking at the porch, asking for admittance. On being asked who she was and what was her business, the old woman replied with a smile that she had been nurse to the master of the house when he was a little baby. Question: Who did the woman say she was? Answer: nurse to the master of the house when he was a little baby
Context: When he came to the castle, they at once took him on as a shepherd. But if he lost so much as a single hare, and no matter how small it might be, then they would cut three red strips from his back, and the king was so sure of his case that he went right off to whet his knife. Question: Who might Esben possibly win if he managed to herd the king's hares? Answer: the princess
Context: When he had brought the precious robes, the Crab put on the golden garment and then crept upon the golden cushion, and in this way the fisherman carried him to the castle, where the Crab presented the other garment to his bride. Now the ceremony took place, and when the married pair were alone together the Crab made himself known to his young wife, and told her how he was the son of the greatest king in the world, and how he was enchanted, so that he became a crab by day and was a man only at night; and he could also change himself into an eagle as often as he wished. Question: Why was the Crab only a man at night? Answer: The Crab was enchanted.
Context: It would have been a beautiful thing to hide in, if it had not had so much water in it. The window was too small for Mr. McGregor, and he was tired of running after Peter. Question: Why did Mr. McGregor return to his work? Answer: Because the window was too small for Mr. McGregor and he was tired to running after Peter.
Context: Now one of these young men had a bad and spiteful disposition. But as the wind blew and dried him, his skin became drawn and hardened, and the salt increased the pain so much that he rolled on the sand in his agony and cried aloud. Question: What happened because the hare bathed in the sea water and sat in the wind? Answer: His skin became drawn and hardened.
Context: When the old man and his wife saw this, they understood that it was a reward to them from Shiro for their faithful love to him. They tasted the cakes and found them nicer than any other food. Question: What did the greedy neighbor do in order to borrow the mortar? Answer: pretended that he sorrowed for the death of Shiro and wished to make cakes for a festival to the dog's memory.
Context: "I should like to have that fellow," said the peasant to himself. " The man with the sheep was quite ready, and the bargain was quickly made. Question: Who did the peasant on his way to the highroad? Answer: a man carrying a large goose under his arm
Context: 'You have told me what I wanted to know,' cried the Fairy, 'but alas! Accordingly the butterflies whisked her off, and set her down in quite a strange kingdom. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' Question: Why couldn't the Fairy help Iris? Answer: Her gifts could be given but once.
Context: Now at this time there lived in Kyoto a general named Raiko, who had made himself famous for his brave deeds. Some time before this he made the country ring with his name, for he had attacked Oeyama, where a band of ogres lived with their chief, who instead of wine drank the blood of human beings. Question: How did people feel about Raiko? Answer: respect
Context: MISS MOPPET holds her poor head in her paws, and looks at him through a hole in the duster. HE has wriggled out and run away; and he is dancing a jig on the top of the cupboard! Question: What happens to the Mouse after Miss Moppet catches it? Answer: Miss Moppet ties him up in the duster and tosses it about like a ball.
Context: The money-pig was the only one who received a written invitation. The clock talked politics--"tick, tick;" he professed to know what was the time of day, but there was a whisper that he did not go correctly. Question: Who received a written invitation? Answer: the money-pig
Context: One summer, a long, long time ago, the folk of Melbustad went up to the hill pastures with their herd. So the maiden remained alone in the hills with no other company than a dog. Question: What happened because the cows had began to grow restless? Answer: It was impossible to keep them in order.
Context: Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" But as they were amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deep growl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after that one yet more savage; but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus Mac Roy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "It is Setanta." Question: How did Fergus Mac Roy and his guests feel when they rushed to the door? Answer: fear
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Whose achievements did Setanta think about? Answer: the Red Branch
Context: The table on which the tin soldiers stood, was covered with other playthings, but the most attractive to the eye was a pretty little paper castle. In front of the castle a number of little trees surrounded a piece of looking-glass, which was intended to represent a transparent lake. Question: What surrounded the little trees? Answer: a piece of looking-glass
Context: And when the monk replied that he had seen nothing, the other continued: "Bonze, you should not lie! Of flying ogres there are thousands of varieties, who bring ruin to people everywhere. Then he once more mounted his horse, which carried him up the hollow trunk and out at the end of the tree. Question: What will the monk do when the stranger tells him to say the truth? Answer: point to the hollow tree
Context: 'Don't get lost, and come back safely in the evening,' said the big sister. Next time I meet him I shall do him the honour of eating him up.' Question: Where did the siblings go to pick raspberries? Answer: the wood
Context: Then they set forth, but the news of their coming ran swifter still. In the place where they were wont to see cattle, and herds, and dwellings, they beheld neither house nor beast, nor man nor smoke. Question: What happened after Rhiannon, Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi sat out in a green place? Answer: Suddenly the crash of thunder struck loudly on their ears, and a wall of mist fell between them.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: What happened when the old man awoke in the morning? Answer: He always found his room tidied and put into such beautiful order that not a speck of dust was to be found anywhere.
Context: When the monk asked her what was the trouble, she replied: "A man is pursuing me. If you will tell him you have not seen me, I will be grateful to you all my life long!" Question: What did the girl do after she asked for the old Buddhist monk's help? Answer: ran up to the hollow tree and crawled into it
Context: Jack remained here for many days, doing nothing, and-as far as anybody knew-eating nothing. This conduct puzzled his brothers greatly, and they put such constant questions to him, that at length he told them the secret of the table, and even gave a dinner to them, which far outdid any they had ever seen or heard of. Question: What did the king request from Jack? Answer: borrow the table for three days
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What did the girl do after the snake told her how to find her baby? Answer: went back and felt everywhere with her whole hand, even putting her fingers into the tiniest crannie
Context: The Dark Man didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and he seemed to have no suspicion of me. I got into bed, and couldn't sleep for a long time; and when I examined my five guineas this morning, that I left in the table drawer the last thing, I found five withered leaves of oak--bad luck to the giver! Question: What did the king slip into the neighbor's hand? Answer: five guineas
Context: He was much surprised to see the little golden hut, glittering and sparkling there in the forest, and was still more surprised at the girl within the hut. And all would have liked to have known where he had come from, but he said not a word, for he was ashamed. Question: How did the bailiff feel when he finally let go of the poker? Answer: frightened
Context: And, to the young man's horror, as soon as their lips had met, an awful change came over her. She saw the poor man's astonishment and terror, and she burst into a mocking laugh. Question: What will Thomas do after he heard the Queen of Fairies' demands? Answer: fall on his knees and beg for mercy
Context: The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, heard all they said, and was very sad to think that the next day would be his last. They will be sure to lay the child in the shade behind the hedge while they are at work; you must lie by its side, just as if you were watching it. Question: What does the wolf order the dog to do? Answer: lay beside the child as if he is watching over him
Context: Now in this lake there happened to harbor a wicked old Manito, Mishosha by name, who looked at the brothers as they played. Hand it to me," he said, when he had approached near enough to receive it. and giving his canoe a slap, it glided through the water, without further help, with the swiftness of an arrow. Question: Why did the Manito laugh at Owasso? Answer: Owasso cared for his brother even though he was in danger.
Context: We come from the other land to test mankind, and to try the sincerity of the living. Often we have heard the bereaved by death say that if the lost could be restored, they would devote their lives to make them happy. Question: Why did the strange guests want to test mankind? Answer: to try the sincerity of the living
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Where did the servants pitch the tents? Answer: in the open field
Context: That very moment the wood was alive with dwarfs, all of them asking with one voice: "What are my lord's commands? They showed him the way, and he reached his goal quickly and without trouble, for no one interfered with him. Question: How did Mike by the Stove feel when the princesses turned into lemons? Answer: despair
Context: At this Oonagh set up a loud laugh of great contempt, by the way, and looked at him as if he were only a mere handful of a man. When Finn saw this he felt a certain description of moisture, which shall be nameless, oozing out through every pore of his skin; but Oonagh, depending upon her woman's wit, felt not a whit daunted. Question: Why did Oonagh bring Far Rua to the well? Answer: to distract Far Rua
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said the cat, and seized the bell-cow and ate her up. Then she went up to the orchard, and there stood a man who was sweeping up leaves. Question: Who did the cat eat after the bell-cow? Answer: a man who was sweeping up leaves
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' But though I can't take money,' says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.' Question: Why couldn't Saint Kavin take money? Answer: He had a vow against it.
Context: And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles and helper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, by mine own unaided power, cannot work the like. She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout, and she took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff-balls of the woods, and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats, and with these she fed Murtough and the hosts. Question: How did Sheen feed Murtough and the hosts? Answer: She took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff-balls of the woods, and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats.
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. And he drew up his boat on the shore, and asked him would he play cards. And he said he should have a castle, and of women the finest and fairest; and they were his. Question: How will Morraha feel when he wins multiple games? Answer: happy
Context: And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and he saw the young man coming. But he went against her will, and he saw the currach coming, and the young man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach. Question: What did the young man bade from Morraha? Answer: the art of the Druid not to sleep two nights in one house, nor finish a second meal at the one table, till he brought him the sword of light and news of the death of Anshgayliacht
Context: Accordingly, Ko-ko had just time to draw on the moccasins when the wicked father came in sight. cried Ko-ko, giving orders to the enchanted moccasins; and go they did; but to the astonishment of the Owl, they turned immediately about in the way in which the wicked father, now, very furious, was approaching. Question: What happened after Ko-ko gave orders to the enchanted moccasins? Answer: They turned immediately about in the way in which the wicked father.
Context: Now, when Farquhar had been in his mortal state, he had been very fond of children. For scarce had the Holy Name crossed his lips than the spell which had held him so long was broken. Worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles. Question: What will happen after Farquhar goes to his neighborhood? Answer: He will not be able to find his home.
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: Why did the princess put her hands into Tom's hands? Answer: He made her laugh three times.
Context: They had, in fact, come head-over-heels down the well, in the person of the old Mother-Toad, who was still alive. The green Frogs, who had been established there a long time, and swam about in the water, called them "well-guests." Question: Why did the new-comers seem determined to stay where they were? Answer: they found it very agreeable living in a dry place as they called the wet stores
Context: It chanced, long years ago, that a certain horse-dealer lived in the South of Scotland, near the Border. These hills are, as all men know, the scene of some of the most famous of Thomas the Rhymer's prophecies. Question: What did Canonbie Dick have behind him as he went up and down the country? Answer: a long string of horses
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Why did everybody love the Flower Fairy? Answer: The Fairy herself was so kind and charming.
Context: On another occasion, in the days of Kien Lung, the minister Dschou
Ling was ordered to install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands. When
the fleet was sailing by south of Korea, a storm arose, and his ship
was driven toward the Black Whirlpool. Question: What happened when the fleet was sailing by south of Korea? Answer: a storm arose, and his ship was driven toward the Black Whirlpool.
Context: The devil would gladly have won back some of the tribute Murmur had forced from his grandmother for the king. And after he had won all the devil had with him, the latter had to give him some of the gold and silver that was in the castle. cried the king, when he saw that Murmur Goose-Egg was in the best of health. Question: Why was Murmur surrounded by money? Answer: He won money from the devil.
Context: "I felt quite light, my cheerfulness had returned, and I was the happiest of mortals. Next morning--correctly speaking, it was noon, for I slept remarkably late that day--I found myself still sitting there, in happy consciousness that my former wish had been a foolish one. Question: why is the man a happy director? Answer: because all of his company are puppets
Context: When it was out of sight, a voice from the pot said:  'Uncover me,' and she lifted the lid, and the little grey snake slid rapidly to the ground. 'Follow me, and let us go home together,' said the snake, and the girl followed his through the forest and along the green paths, till they came to a great lake, where they stopped to rest. Question: What happened after the baby went into the lake? Answer: He gave a spring and fell right in,  down, down, down, and his mother could not find him, though she searched all among the reeds.
Context: After they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady-love. "She has no conversation," he said, "and I am afraid that she is a coquette, for she is always flirting with the wind." Question: Why did the Reed shake her head when the Swallow asked her to come away with him? Answer: She was so attached to her home.
Context: "I have the same feeling about rats," replied Pickles, "but it would never do to eat our own customers; they would leave us and go to Tabitha Twitchit's." "On the contrary, they would go nowhere," replied Ginger gloomily. Question: How were Ginger and Pickles different from Tabitha Twitchit? Answer: Ginger and Pickle gave unlimited credit and Tabitha Twitchit did not give credit.
Context: Hidesato felt very sorry for the Dragon King on hearing his story, and readily promised to do what he could to help him. So Hidesato was conducted to the palace of the Dragon King, under the bridge. Question: How did Hidesato feel when he saw the palace? Answer: impressed
Context: After he had wandered a while, and began to feel a proper hunger, he came to the old woman who was wedged by the nose in the tree-trunk and who was pulling and jerking away, in order to get loose. No one has called me mother for the last hundred years," said the old woman, "but come and help me out, and give me a bite to eat; for I have not had a bit to eat in all that time. Question: How did Esben free the old woman? Answer: hewed the tree-trunk apart
Context: He did not say anything, and he did not complain, and those are bad signs. My heart joins in your song so sweet;      Come out, dear sun, the world to greet! Question: What happened when the weather did change? Answer: The Snow-man broke up altogether.
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: Who were guarding the emerald goblet? Answer: two coal-black ravens
Context: ONCE on a time, a mouse and a bird and a sausage lived and kept house together in perfect peace among themselves, and in great prosperity. But the other bird called him a poor simpleton to do so much work, while the two others led easy lives at home. Question: What did the other bird call the bird? Answer: a poor simpleton
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: Why was nothing remaining on the place of the old man's lodge-fire? Answer: The old man melted.
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " The next morning, before dawn, the giant went to the forest again. " He told him what had happened at the giant's, and said that now he would go to the well in the church, if only he knew the way. After they had been underway for many, many days, they at last reached the lake. Question: Why did the wolf help the prince to the well in the church? Answer: The prince had helped the wolf before.
Context: Then she began to say that the schoolmaster was such a strong and able man, and finally, that she and her daughter would like to have him for priest, and whether he would not stay and succeed the old father. When the schoolmaster heard that, he said that even though he had the necessary scholarship, he doubted very much that he had the right vocation, and since this was a most important matter for him and for them, it would be unwise to act too hurriedly, so he would ask for a year to think it over. Question: What happened when the schoolmaster asked for a year to think it over? Answer: He found himself standing by a pond in the wood, and could see neither nor parsonage.
Context: They found a very high oak tree, and there they sat, turn about, keeping their eyes always fixed on the castle tower. When the brothers heard this they were very angry, and said:  'Shall we forsooth suffer death for the sake of a wretched girl? Question: How did the brothers feel when they heard about the red flag? Answer: very angry
Context: It has plenty of feathers and plenty of fat, and would look well tied to a string, or paddling in the water at our place. Now here is an opportunity, and, if possible, I will get it for her. Question: How does the peasant describe the goose? Answer: It has plenty of feathers and plenty of fat.
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. Question: Who did not have much regard for the son? Answer: the second wife
Context: It stood on the table that was spread for tea; it was lifted by a very delicate hand, but the delicate hand was awkward. The lid was no worse to speak of; the worst had been spoken of that. And the bulb lay in the earth, the bulb lay in me; it became my heart, my living heart, such as I had never before possessed. Question: what was the teapot used for after it broke? Answer: as a flower pot
Context: Another giant, called Blunderbore, vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever he should have him in his power. This giant kept an enchanted castle in the midst of a lonely wood; and some time after the death of Cormoran Jack was passing through a wood, and being weary, sat down and went to sleep. Question: What did the giant do after seeing Jack? Answer: carried him to his castle where he locked him up in a large room
Context: There are many seamen in Fukien, and every year people are lost at
sea. And because of this, most likely, the Queen of Heaven took pity
on the distress of her people during her lifetime on earth. Question: Why did the Queen of Heaven now appeared frequently on the seas? Answer: Her thoughts are uninterruptedly turned toward aiding the drowning in their distress.
Context: "Is it really true," he asked, "that you do not know what poetry is?" " And I may venture to affirm that I have more of it in me than the student has, even if I am only a poor tub of the huckster's." Question: Where else did the goblin place the tongue? Answer: on the cash-box
Context: The next morning the wolf sent the wild boar to call out the dog; and to appoint a meeting in the wood to receive satisfaction from him. Old Sultan could find no second but a cat with three legs; and as they set off together, the poor thing went limping along, holding her tail up in the air. Question: Why did the cat spring upon the wild boar? Answer: She thought it was a mouse
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: Where were the King, Queen, and princess safe? Answer: up in their gallery
Context: That evening they left the country for ever, and Jegu, without their help, grew poorer and poorer, and at last died of misery, while Barbaik was glad to find work in the market of Morlaix. Question: What occurred to Jegu after the dwarfs left? Answer: grew poorer and pooere and died to misery
Context: He obliged Cinderella to sit down, and, putting the slipper to her foot, he found it went on very easily, and fitted her as if it had been made of wax. The astonishment her two sisters were in was excessively great, but still abundantly greater when Cinderella pulled out of her pocket the other slipper, and put it on her foot. Question: What happened after the gentleman obliged Cinderella to sit down, and, putting the slipper to her foot? Answer: The gentleman found it went on very easily, and fitted her as if it had been made of wax.
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. Question: Where did Finn live? Answer: on Knockmany Hill
Context: The peasant did not object to this; but ordered his hornets to leave the old woman alone, and fly back into their house. Then he went home with his rooster, his mill and his hornets, became a rich man and lived happily until he died. Question: What happened to the peasant when he went home with his rooster, his mill and his hornets? Answer: He became a rich man and lived happily until he died.
Context: When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. She lay in a green opening in the midst of a thick, dark wood, and beside her lay the bundle of poor belongings she had brought from home. Question: What did the maiden do when she saw the old woman? Answer: asked the woman whether she did not know which road led to the prince
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I am come," she said, "because I am beloved of Murtough, son of Erc, King of Erin, and I come to seek him here." Question: What happened after Murtough conversed with Sheen for a while? Answer: She appeared to him so fair that the King was ready to promise her anything in life she wished, so long as she would go with him to Cletty of the Boyne.
Context: Finn followed, and on the threshold of the enchanted palace he found the body of Midna. Conn and his only son and Gaul mac Morna followed the young hero into the Teck-Midcuarta, where the spear-long waxen candles were still burning, and when they saw the head of Midna impaled there at the end of the hall, the head of the man whom they believed to be immortal and not to be wounded or conquered, they were filled with great joy, and praised their deliverer and paid him many compliments. Question: How will the people feel about Finn defeating the son of Midna? Answer: proud
Context: His mother came to the door, clasped her hands together over her head, and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods. And then she decorated her room, and she herself, in her old days, went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction. Question: What did the mother do when she came to the door? Answer: clasped her hands together over her head, and nearly fainted with joy.
Context: The angry brother at length came to the skeleton of the moose, when he perceived that the track he had been long pursuing did not stop there, so he continued to follow it up till he arrived at the end of the earth, where, for all his trouble, he found only a pair of moccasins. Vexed that he had been outwitted by following a pair of moccasins instead of their owner, who was the object of his pursuit, he bitterly complained, resolving not to give up his revenge, and to be more wary in scrutinizing signs. Question: What did the angry brother find when he followed the track? Answer: a pair of moccasins
Context: The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was when the man returned from his work in the field. Sure enough, Shiro was waiting for his master and the evening tit-bit. Question: Who lived next door to the good old couple? Answer: another old man and his wife who were both wicket and cruel
Context: When the wicked monkey saw that he had killed the crab he ran away from the spot as fast as he could, in fear and trembling, like a coward as he was. Now the crab had a son who had been playing with a friend not far from the spot where this sad work had taken place. Question: How did the crab's son feel when he saw his father had died? Answer: sad
Context: "In the square below," said the Happy Prince, "there stands a little match-girl. "Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow," said the Prince, "do as I command you." "What a lovely bit of glass," cried the little girl; and she ran home, laughing. Question: What did the Swallow decide to do because the Happy Prince is blind? Answer: stay with the Happy Prince forever
Context: 'My dear,' said she to her husband, when she was beginning to recover, 'I think I'd feel better if I was to see my father and mother and sisters once more. She rang the bell, and in a short time she had her mother and father and married sisters about her, and they laughed till they cried for joy at finding her safe back again. Question: What did the youngest princess need to do when she felt inclined to return? Answer: mention her wish when she laid down at night
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. But he liked to sing and to dance, and that is what he did all day long, and far into the night as well. The youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner, and sang and danced, as he always did. Question: Why did the mother think the youth's idea was not a bad idea? Answer: She could not afford to care for him anymore.
Context: cried two young men, 'and you will come with us this instant before the judge, and answer for it.' In answer, the poor man told, in a few words, how he had begged the houses from his brother, and produced the deed of gift which made him their owner. Question: Why did the two young men take the elder brother before the judge? Answer: He had killed their father.
Context: When he awoke it was near midnight, and the moon had risen on the Crag. At last they stopped, and, with shrieks of elfin laughter, led the prettiest and daintiest of their companions up to him, and cried, "Tread a measure, tread a measure, Oh, Man! Question: What did the poor man do after he saw the Fairies? Answer: rose and tried to walk away from them
Context: The angry brother at length came to the skeleton of the moose, when he perceived that the track he had been long pursuing did not stop there, so he continued to follow it up till he arrived at the end of the earth, where, for all his trouble, he found only a pair of moccasins. Vexed that he had been outwitted by following a pair of moccasins instead of their owner, who was the object of his pursuit, he bitterly complained, resolving not to give up his revenge, and to be more wary in scrutinizing signs. Question: How did Ownee trick the angry brother? Answer: He placed the moccasins near the moose's skeleton.
Context: Then Letiko went straight home, and said to her mother: 'While I was gathering herbs a fine tall gentleman came to me and charged me to tell you that you should remember what you promised him.' When the woman heard that she was sore afraid, and immediately shut all the doors and windows of the house, stopped up all the chinks and holes, and kept Letiko hidden away, that the Sunball should not come and take her away. Question: What did Letiko forget to do? Answer: to close up the keyhole
Context: The poor monkey sat up rubbing his back, and his face was very long as he screamed angrily. " Seeing the monkey in this plight on the ground, the deer holding his leaf on high said:  "This round is finished-the hare has won." Question: What prize did Kintaro give? Answer: a rice-dumpling
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: What did the old man see when the first ray of light entered the room? Answer: The little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire.
Context: He spoke no more, and as the sun fell out of view the light had gone from his face. He exerted himself to supply, with his bow and net, the wants of the little household, but he never made mention of his father. Question: What did the mother and daughter do after the spirit did not answer? Answer: lamented aloud
Context: Then the King could contain himself no longer, but rushed towards her, saying,  "You are no other than my dear wife!" Then she answered,  "Yes, I am your dear wife," and in that moment, by the grace of heaven, her life returned to her, and she was once more well and strong. Question: Who was sent into the wood and devoured by wild beasts? Answer: the daughter
Context: After he had heard him swear this terrible oath, the Wolf thought that his suspicions must be groundless, and he would have let the matter rest; but the Fox, having an uneasy conscience, could not do so. As this did not suit him at all, he next proposed that they should go for a walk, "for," said he, "it is now quite plain that neither of us can have taken the butter. Question: What did the Fox suggest for them to do after he made the oath? Answer: stand near the fire
Context: "Dear, good pancake, don't roll so fast, wait a little and I will eat you up!" "Mother Gray and grandpa I've left behind, and the seven squallers, too, you'll find, and Man Tan, so I think I can leave you as well, Hen Glen!" Question: What did the pancake do after the rooster wanted to eat it? Answer: rolled and rolled as fast as ever it could
Context: That pleased the others, and they sat there a long time discussing the day and the fairway. " "Well, there is a counter-spell for what we wish to do, and if it is used, it will go hard with us, for it will cost us nothing less than our lives!" Question: Why did the captain's wife think there was someone listening to them? Answer: It seemed to her as though some one were smoking in the forward cabin.
Context: She cleared the three miles of fire at a leap, and asked if he were riding, and he said he was. She consumed them, and said to him there were before them three miles of hill covered with steel thistles, and that she must clear it. They went on, and she went not far before she told him to give her a meal, and he gave her the bread and the bottleful. Question: How did Morraha and the king pass the night? Answer: with drinking, with sport and with diversion, till the whiteness of the day came upon the morrow morning
Context: He held out his hand to say "good-bye," but as he did so the stranger pulled out a huge bag of gold and placed it in it. "You have done your part of the bargain--we must do ours," he said. " Question: What did the stranger give to the seal catcher before he left? Answer: a huge bag of gold
Context: The lamp, however, was always kept clean and shining in a corner, where it attracted all eyes. One day--it was the watchman's birthday--the old woman approached the lamp, smiling to herself, and said, "I will have an illumination to-day, in honor of my old man." Question: What did the old woman place on the lamp? Answer: only oil
Context: But little recked the horse-dealer of Arthur and his Knights, nor yet of Thomas the Rhymer. He was riding along at a snail's pace, thinking over the bargains which he had made at the fair that day. Question: What did Canonbie Dick do while he was riding over Bowden Moor? Answer: rode along at a snail's pace, thought over the bargains which he had made at the fair that day, and wondered when he was likely to dispose of his two remaining horses
Context: After he had heard him swear this terrible oath, the Wolf thought that his suspicions must be groundless, and he would have let the matter rest; but the Fox, having an uneasy conscience, could not do so. As this did not suit him at all, he next proposed that they should go for a walk, "for," said he, "it is now quite plain that neither of us can have taken the butter. Question: Why did the Fox want them to stand near the fire? Answer: When they became hot, the butter would ooze out of the skin of whichever of them was guilty. And he took care that the Wolf should stand in the hottest place.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: Why did the old man feel uncomfortable when he saw the changes in his home? Answer: He did not know who made the changes.
Context: No, indeed, he would be sure not to look in the basket, said he. But on the way, he kept wondering as to what might be in the basket, and willy-nilly--he could not keep from raising the cover a little, and looking through the crack. Question: Who did the lizard turn into? Answer: a man
Context: Long, long ago in Kyoto, the people of the city were terrified by accounts of a dreadful ogre, who, it was said, haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by. The missing victims were never seen again, so it was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal, who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also. Question: Where did not one dare venture after sunset? Answer: near the Gate of Rashomon
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: What did Fergus Mac Roy find when the bolts were drawn back? Answer: the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle
Context: The Prince returned to his room in despair; then the Princess Hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee, and asked him, 'Why so sad, Prince Milan?' With these words she breathed on the window, and her breath froze on the pane. Question: What did Hyacinthia tell the Prince they had to do regarding the third task? Answer: fly now
Context: "And you will kill hundreds more," interposed Strong Desire, in the most insinuating manner imaginable. He listened until they had found the headless body, and he heard their piercing shrieks of rage and sorrow as he took his way to the lodge of his kind adviser. Question: What did Strong Desire see when he looked back? Answer: the torches of persons come out in search of the new married couple
Context: The deer, the monkey and the hare set to work to help the bear raise the platform on which they were all to wrestle. Now, Mr. Monkey and Mr. Hare, if you are both ready, please walk out and take your places on the platform." Question: What did the deer use as a signal? Answer: a leaf
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: What swam towards Sentaro? Answer: a monstrous shark
Context: The maiden now rode for many days and weeks, and it took a long, long time before she came to the East Wind. But if you wish, I will take you to my brother, the West Wind, and perhaps he can tell you, for he is much stronger than I am. Question: Why did the East Wind not know where the road was? Answer: He had never blown so far.
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: What happened when Jack my Hedgehog rode up to the palace? Answer: The guards charged him with their bayonets.
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: How did the Prince feel when he saw the old man? Answer: astonished
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. But when he had satisfied his thirst, and wished to raise himself up, he couldn't lift his head, because someone held his beard fast in the water. ' But the Prince, mindful of the counsel he had been given, wasn't the least afraid, and approached the throne still on his knees. If you do all this, I will reward you richly; but if you don't, you shall lose your head.' Question: What did the Magician have instead of hands? Answer: claws
Context: He would take good note of it, said the king's son, and he sat there with the Master Girl all day long until evening. The giant has sent me to fetch his tribute," said the king's son. " This the king's son did, and saw a great deal of gold and silver lying in the hill like dead rock in an ore-pile. I stood the sack of gold outside on the bench," was the reply. " Question: How much did the king's son ask for from the rock? Answer: as much as he could carry
Context: The old people were very active and industrious; they were never idle for even a single hour. The old man would read aloud about Africa, with its great forests and the wild elephants, while his wife would listen attentively, stealing a glance now and then at the clay elephants which served as flowerpots. " Question: What did the old people do on Sunday afternoons? Answer: bring out some books
Context: The first thing they found was Mittens, hiding in an empty jar. Mother, Mother, there has been an old man rat in the dairy--a dreadful enormous big rat, Mother; and he's stolen a pat of butter and the rolling-pin." Question: How did Mittens descrive the old man rat who stole a pat of butter and the rolling-pin? Answer: a dreadful, normous, bug rat
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: What did the girl give her neighbors in exchange for corn? Answer: pumpkins
Context: Scarcely had she finished speaking when she saw beside her a little silver tray with a gilt coffee-pot, two cups of rare porcelain, a sugar basin of fine crystal, silver sugar tongs, and some good fresh white bread. 'Now I should like to know very much who has given us all this,' said Lisa gratefully. Question: What did Aina see beside her after she finished speaking? Answer: a little silver tray with a gilt coffee-pot, two cups of rare porcelain, a sugar basin of fine crystal, silver sugar tongs, and some good fresh white bread
Context: The church was full of lights, as was always the case when the Christmas mass was said. As she sat down it seemed to her that some one said: "If I had not stood godfather to you when you were christened, I would do away with you as you sit there, and now hurry and make yourself scarce, or it will be the worse for you!" Question: What did the woman do when she realized things were not as they should be? Answer: ran out hastily.
Context: But his mother, who was still living, objected: "she cannot speak," said she, "and, maybe, she belongs to the troll-folk." When those whom the prince had set to keep guard opened their eyes again, they thought that the queen had devoured her child, and the old queen wanted to have her burned; but the prince loved her so very tenderly, that after much pleading he succeeded in having her saved from punishment, though only with the greatest difficulty. Question: What did people think when they opened their eyes again? Answer: The queen devoured her child.
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: What did the girl need to do if she was unhappy or in danger? Answer: tell the casket
Context: The ould gander, who was their general, turning about his head, cried out to me, 'Is that you, Dan?' ' Sweet is your hand in a pitcher of honey, my jewel,' says I, though all the time I thought within myself that I don't much trust you; but there was no help, so I caught the gander by the leg, and away I and the other geese flew after him as fast as hops. Question: How did the gander plan to help Daniel? Answer: put out Daniel's hand and catch the gander by the leg
Context: The man drove off on his way, and John crossed the hill to his home. There stood the giant gate of the Jutulsberg wide open, and out of it streamed a light and radiance as of thousands of candles. Question: Who stood in the midst of it all? Answer: a giant
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: What did the young man's father do at the end of the week? Answer: counted up the money they had made, and rubbed his hands with delight
Context: Once there was a gentleman who married, for his second wife, the proudest and most haughty woman that was ever seen. She had, by a former husband, two daughters of her own humor, who were, indeed, exactly like her in all things. Question: Who took unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper from her mother? Answer: a young daughter
Context: I had bitten the youngest boy in the leg, because he took away the bone I was gnawing; a bone for a bone, I thought! The Snow-man, however, was not listening to him any more; he was looking into the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on its four iron legs, and seemed to be just the same size as the Snow-man. Question: Why did the old yard-dog bite the youngest boy in the leg? Answer: The youngest boy took away the bone the old yard-dog was gnawing.
Context: The king began to revive at these hopeful words, and took Moti off to his stable where he bade him choose for himself any horse he liked. There were plenty of fine horses in the stalls, but to the king's astonishment Moti chose a poor little rat of a pony that was used to carry grass and water for the rest of the stable. Question: Why did Moti choose a poor little rat of a pony? Answer: If he fell off this little beast he couldn't hurt himself much.
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived not very far from John of Groat's house, which, as everyone knows, is in the very north of Scotland. He lived in a little cottage by the sea-shore, and made his living by catching seals and selling their fur, which is very valuable. Question: What did the country people believe the larger seals were? Answer: Mermen and Merwomen
Context: She looked until it came near, when she perceived that it was another Weendigo or Giant Cannibal. The son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken, and as the father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground. Question: What happened after the son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken? Answer: The father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground.
Context: Saying this, he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse and went out to his work in the fields. Her face was seamed with many wrinkles, and was as brown as leather, and every now and then she stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face. Question: What was the farmer's old wife doing? Answer: pounding barley
Context: But the ushers rushed her out of the hall, thinking she had gone suddenly insane; and the senator's friends seized him firmly and carried him out the stage entrance to the street, where they put him into an open carriage and instructed the driver to take him home. It took the senator several months to recover from the shame and humiliation of this escapade; and, curiously enough, he never had the slightest idea what had induced him to act in so extraordinary a manner. Question: How will the senator feel when he realizes that he danced during the political meeting? Answer: humilated
Context: Jose did exactly as the horse told him, and everything fell out as the animal prophesied; so that it was not until they were galloping breathlessly towards the palace that the princess knew that she was taken captive. But Jose answered:  'We shall find plenty of handkerchiefs where we are going.' Question: Why did the princess drop her bran, handkerchief, and ring? Answer: She was trying to escape.
Context: Once there was a woman who had no children, and this made her very unhappy. Soon after that, while Letiko was away one day gathering herbs, the Sunball came to her, and said: 'Letiko, when you go home, tell your mother that she must bethink herself of what she promised me.' Question: Why was the woman unhappy? Answer: because she had no children
Context: For the heart of Shasasa, the daughter of Gopani-Kufa, went forth to Butou the traitor, and from her he learnt the secret of the Magic Mirror. So it befell that, one day, as Gopani-Kufa was gazing up at the river from a window of the palace he again saw the war-canoes of the white men; and at the sight his spirit misgave him. Question: What happened to the pillow? Answer: It was stolen by Botou the traitor.
Context: It rested on the loftiest cliffs of the island, and there they fixed their residence. They all resumed their natural shapes, but they were diminished to the size of fairies; and as a mark of homage to the King of the Evening Star, they never failed on every pleasant evening during the summer season to join hands and dance upon the top of the rocks. Question: What did the village do to mark the homage to the King of the Evening Star? Answer: joined hands and danced
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. Question: How did the father feel the next morning? Answer: delighted
Context: "He surely is a kind master," said the king's son to himself, walked up and down the room, and whistled and sang. We have no such expensive soup at home," said the king's son, "but the main thing is, how does it taste?" Question: Why did the king's son walk up and down the room? Answer: He thought there would be plenty of time to clean the stable.
Context: On another occasion, in the days of Kien Lung, the minister Dschou
Ling was ordered to install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands. When
the fleet was sailing by south of Korea, a storm arose, and his ship
was driven toward the Black Whirlpool. Question: What did the beautiful maiden with golden earrings do when she appeared? Answer: waved her hand in the air and the winds became still and the waves grew even
Context: Then the faithful old servant Katoda came out, and bowing himself to the ground before his master. He poured out the long tale of wrong, telling him all that had happened, and how it was that he found his daughter in such a wild and desolate spot with only two old servants to take care of her. Question: What did Katoda do after bowing? Answer: poured out the long tale of wrong
Context: He forgot his errand, he forgot his home, and he forgot everything that had ever happened to him. Time passed by, and one night he and a band of merry companions set out for a long journey through the air. Question: What will happen to Farquhar when he stays at the Fairy Parlour? Answer: A magic spell will be cast over him.
Context: And Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle-shout, and he rose impetuously from off his bed, but the wine overcame him, and his strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor. She called upon Cairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people, the men of Owen and of Niall, and together they went to the fort; but Sheen guarded it well, so that they could by no means find an entrance. Question: What did Duivsech call upon Cairnech to do? Answer: to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people, the men of Owen and of Niall
Context: He held out his hand to say "good-bye," but as he did so the stranger pulled out a huge bag of gold and placed it in it. "You have done your part of the bargain--we must do ours," he said. " Question: Why did the stranger give the seal catcher gold? Answer: The stranger took away his job.
Context: Then the scholar said: "I have a means of driving away old age!" Then his son and the older grand-children
came up and all asked for a drink of the wine. Question: What did the Liu Tschen do to drive away old age? Answer: drew out his magic wine and gave his wife some of it to drink
Context: 'More wood,' cried Guddhi, and they all ran and gathered wood and heaped it on the flames, which leaped and roared and sputtered. And the fishes gathered round it as they had done on the top of the cliff, and found the flames as hot as before, and that fire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever. Question: Why did the fishes decide to live in the water? Answer: It was cold under the water.
Context: As he was lying there, he heard the trampling of a horse's hooves, as it forced its way through the bushes; and, looking up, he saw the most beautiful lady that he had ever seen coming riding towards him on a grey palfrey. Her saddle was of pure ivory, and her saddle-cloth of blood-red satin, while her saddle girths were of corded silk and her stirrups of cut crystal. Question: What did Thomas hear while he was lying there? Answer: trampling of a horse's hooves
Context: "I don't mind," bleated a young lamb named Frisky, as it kicked up its heels and gambolled about upon the grass; "it's nice to have all that heavy wool cut off my back, for I sha'n't have to carry it around wherever I go." Have you any idea what you look like, all sheared down to your skin? Question: Who said they don't mind having their wool cut off? Answer: Frisky
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: What did the king do when the high-noon came the sun grew hot? Answer: sat down to rest upon the fairy mound
Context: "This I can give thee," she said, "and I do it gladly, for these apples are the Apples of Truth; and whoso eateth them gaineth this reward, that his lips will never more be able to frame a lie." Thomas took the apple, and ate it; and for evermore the Grace of Truth rested on his lips; and that is why, in after years, men called him "True Thomas." Question: What did the Queen of the Fairies order Thomas to do after they arrived at the castle? Answer: not speak to anyone
Context: And tying her to a dry tree, and taking off his leather cap to serve for a pail, he began to milk, but not a drop came. When luckily there came by a butcher who was wheeling along a young pig in a wheelbarrow. Question: Who came by wheeling along a pig in a wheelbarrow? Answer: a butcher
Context: An old man had an only son, named Iadilla, who had come to that age which is thought to be most proper to make the long and final fast which is to secure through life a guardian genius or spirit. To accomplish his wish, he thought it necessary that the young Iadilla should fast a much longer time than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom, whose fame he coveted. Question: Why was Iadilla in the sweating-lodge and bath several times? Answer: to prepare and purify him for communion with his good spirit
Context: Long, long ago, there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan, a traveling monkey-man, who earned his living by taking round a monkey and showing off the animal's tricks. One evening the man came home in a very bad temper and told his wife to send for the butcher the next morning. Question: How did the wife feel at her husband's request? Answer: bewildered
Context: He cast his eyes upon his wife, and continued:  "For you, my partner in life, I have less sorrow, because I am persuaded you will not remain long behind me. Unkindness, ingratitude, and every wickedness, are in the scene before you. It was for this that years ago I withdrew from my kindred and my tribe to spend my days in this lonely spot. I have contented myself with the company of your mother and yourselves, during seasons of very frequent scarcity and want. He listened again with all attention, and he heard the cry distinctly repeated. Question: How will the father feel knowing that his son and daughter have forsaken the young boy? Answer: ashamed
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: What did the others do when they saw the farmer at the nearest market town? Answer: teazed him, asked how it came about that he was childless
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. If White Feather should overcome the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on, until they had all measured speed with him. By a dexterous use of the vine, he gained the first race, struck down his competitor, and cut off his head. Question: What did the giants do when they saw the young man drawing near? Answer: gave a cry of joy
Context: The giant, giving vent to his feelings with many loud rumbling words, looked sharply around to see whether he could discover any tracks. When he of the little shell came in sight of the lodge, the stranger was in front of it, employed in skinning his beavers. Question: Why did the giant go to the beaver-dam very early? Answer: so that his beaver tails would not be stolen
Context: So they took him to be christened, and the parson said: 'You'll never be able to put that child in a decent bed on account of his prickles.' When the farmer came home he gave his wife and the maid the things they had asked for, and then he went behind the stove and gave Jack my Hedgehog the bagpipes. Question: Why did the farmer often wish his son was dead? Answer: His son was half-hedgehog.
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. Question: What did Maidwa fear? Answer: The swan must by this time have taken wing.
Context: The snake let her weep for a little while, and then he said--  'Now we will journey on to my family, and we will all repay you for the kindness you showed to me.' 'You have done more than enough in giving me back my hand,' replied the girl; but the snake only smiled. Question: What did the snake and the girl need to do after she got her hand back? Answer: meet the snake's family
Context: From the first he has hated me,' but outwardly she showed nothing. And when the king asked her what news there was in the town she only answered:  'You have ridden far; eat first, and drink, for you must be hungry and thirsty, and then I will tell you my news.' Question: Why didn't the king notice that the fan had ceased moving? Answer: The king was much too interested in the tale.
Context: The first thing they found was Mittens, hiding in an empty jar. Mother, Mother, there has been an old man rat in the dairy--a dreadful enormous big rat, Mother; and he's stolen a pat of butter and the rolling-pin." Question: Where was Mitthens hiding in? Answer: an empty jar
Context: The King's son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings. The sledge was shaped like a great golden swan, and between the swan's wings lay the little Princess herself. Question: How long did the King's son wait for his bride? Answer: a whole year
Context: So while some were barring the gates, the young devil climbed up and took down the iron flail that had the handstaff and booltheen both made out of red-hot iron. And when he got home to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running and racing as to see himself and the flail. Question: What did the little vagabond think about? Answer: how it would burn the hands off of Tom
Context: "This is really beautiful," said a young girl, who had come into the garden with a young man. And we can't have such a fellow as this in the summer time," replied the young man, pointing to the Snow Man; "he is capital." Question: Who came into the garden? Answer: a young girl and a young man
Context: Thou shalt have wine and roasted apples, for thou art verily a charming child!" He looked exactly like a little angel, but he was so pale, and his whole body trembled with cold. Question: What did the poet offer the child? Answer: wine and roasted apples
Context: At length the king awoke in his castle, and when he looked out of the window, he saw not a single stone of the other castle in which his son-in-law and his daughter lived. Question: How did the king feel when he saw the castle was missing? Answer: uneasy
Context: This wise and good Emperor did not rest till he had secured peace and prosperity throughout his whole land. The Empress and the courtiers were so frightened that they ran away screaming. Question: Who did Kotei see in the sky? Answer: a great Dragon
Context: But before I tell it, thou must first sing for me all the songs thou hast sung for thy child! But do not stop me now--I may overtake him--I may find my child!" Question: Where does Night tell the mother to go? Answer: to the right, into the dark pine forest
Context: Both of them have made a botch of their errand," said he, "and are causing the bride to wait in vain!" And they took an oath that they would never again seek a bride for the river-god. Question: How did the sorcerer feel when Si-Men ordered him to go to the river-god's castle? Answer: scared
Context: The dish was now empty, and Claribel Sudds' precious bonbons had passed from her possession forever! Suddenly Mr. Bostwick, who was a big man, began to sing in a shrill, tremolo soprano voice. Question: Why was Claribel Sudds' precious bonbons passed from her possession forever? Answer: The dish of bonbons was now empty.
Context: The snail had turned to earth in the earth, and the rose tree too. Even the souvenir rose in the hymn-book was faded, but in the garden there were other rose trees and other snails. Question: What did the other snails do? Answer: crept into their houses and spat at the world
Context: That were sad indeed," said the boy, and he took the bow in his hand and examined it on every side. " The poor poet lay on the earth and wept, for the arrow had really flown into his heart. " Question: Why did the poet cry? Answer: because cupid shot an arrow into his heart
Context: Osseo, with a sharp cry, fell trembling to the earth, where the others would have left him, but his good wife raised him up, and he sprang forward on the path, and with steps light as the reindeer he led the party, no longer decrepid and infirm, but a beautiful young man. Osseo immediately joined her, and with looks of fondness and the tenderest regard, bestowed on her every endearing attention, and constantly addressed her by the term of ne-ne-moosh-a, or my sweetheart. Wicked spirits, the enemies of mankind, walk abroad, and lie in wait to ensnare the children of the sky. Question: How will Osseo feel looking at his wife? Answer: ashamed
Context: There lay the lamp in the great armchair near the warm stove. The old people sat at their supper, casting friendly glances at it, and would willingly have admitted it to a place at the table. Question: What did they call the garden that contained a geranium? Answer: the flower garden
Context: At the end of the tunnel the drain fell into a large canal over a steep place, which made it as dangerous for him as a waterfall would be to us. He was too close to it to stop, so the boat rushed on, and the poor tin soldier could only hold himself as stiffly as possible, without moving an eyelid, to show that he was not afraid. Question: What did the tin soldier think about once he was under water? Answer: the little dancer
Context: It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face, and they looked at each other in silence. The wife he chose was very wealthy, but she was also very greedy, and however much she had, she always wanted more. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: Where did the bride's unknown sister-in-law live? Answer: in the unfinished houses
Context: "The children are all out of school, and the schoolmaster was the last of all," said the children. It was good fun, and they sang over the dead ashes:           "Snip, snap, snurre,            Basse lurre. Question: What did the little beings say after the song? Answer: the song is never ended
Context: His father replied: "During my life on earth I happened to tread on bread, hence I was condemned to hard labor at this spot. The latter seemed inclined to listen to his prayer, yet said warningly: "The quick and the dead tread different paths. Question: What will happen when Hu-Wu-Bau begs to the Lord of the Mountain? Answer: The Lord of the Mountain will listen to his prayer.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Where was the Father out of so far as the living may be? Answer: Time's dominion
Context: The woman patted and pinned and fixed and joined, and then, turning to the man, she said:  'Now it is ready for you to try on.' 'That is because it is so fine,' answered she; 'you do not want it to be as thick as the rough clothes you wear every day.' Question: How does the husband describe the coat? Answer: It is not very warm.
Context: WHAT a funny sight it is to see a brood of ducklings with a hen! --Listen to the story of Jemima Puddle-duck, who was annoyed because the farmer's wife would not let her hatch her own eggs. Question: Why was Jemima Puddle-duck annoyed? Answer: because the farmer's wife would not let her hatch her own eggs
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. When the hunter came home he was surprised to see the monster, he was so very frightful. Toward morning he returned, all besmeared with blood, but he did not make known where he had been nor of what kind of game he had been in quest; although the hunter and his wife had dreadful suspicions of the sport in which he had been engaged. In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. Question: Why did the wife not fear the black cloud? Answer: She remembered the good conduct of the Weendigo.
Context: Another evening, when they were all so happy, and the prince dandling the baby, a beautiful greyhound stood before them, took the child out of the father's hand, and was out of the door before you could wink. The princess opened her eyes in a great fright and stared at her, and while she was doing so, the lady wrapped a shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father's lap, and either sank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney. Question: Why did the youngest princess hardly allow a window or a door to be left open? Answer: She did not want to lose her third child.
Context: It had pretty little blue flowers, as delicate as the wings of a moth. People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen. Question: What made the flax look prettier? Answer: sun shine
Context: Therefore Notscha's mother sent him to the rear of the house to keep out of his father's sight. Notscha disappeared and went to his master, in order to ask him what he should do when the dragon returned. Question: Why did Notscha destroy himself? Answer: He wanted to save his parents.
Context: Now, when Farquhar had been in his mortal state, he had been very fond of children. For scarce had the Holy Name crossed his lips than the spell which had held him so long was broken. Question: How was the spell on Farquhar broken? Answer: a word of blessing rose to his lips
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. Let us follow him, and see from what part of the world he cometh." Question: How was Earl St. Clair able to see what the horseman was doing? Answer: He carried a Talisman which his companion lacked, that enabled him to see things as they really were.
Context: So he looked at me in the face, and says he to me, 'Daniel O'Rourke,' says he, 'how do you do?' ' Very well, I thank you, sir,' says I; 'I hope you're well'; wondering out of my senses all the time how an eagle came to speak like a Christian. ' Question: What did Daniel wonder? Answer: how an eagle came to speak like a Christian
Context: When heaven gave her a second child, a guard of twice as many men as had first stood watch was again set about her. Yet everything happened as before, only that this time the foster-mother said to her: "Now you shall grieve as I did when you let the moon slip out!" The queen wept and pleaded-for when the foster-mother was there she could speak-but without avail. Question: Why was the queen unable to tell others what her foster-mother had done? Answer: She could not speak.
Context: The Dark Man didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and he seemed to have no suspicion of me. I got into bed, and couldn't sleep for a long time; and when I examined my five guineas this morning, that I left in the table drawer the last thing, I found five withered leaves of oak--bad luck to the giver! Question: What happened after the neighbor checked on her five guineas in the morning? Answer: She found five withered leaves of oak.
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: Why did the hunter and his wife worry about what the Weendigo did? Answer: The Weendigo was smeared in blood.
Context: In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and he held his court in the palace of Emain Macha. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called the children of a king. Question: Where did Conchubar hold his court? Answer: in the palace of Emain Macha
Context: The bridegroom looked, and on one side of the road he saw a large ball of thread of all colours. All the colours, that is, of the dresses that were tied on to the back of the cart. Question: How did the couple feel after they found thread on the side of the road? Answer: happy
Context: God-fearing and unafraid, Madame Margaret beckoned the phantom nearer. With a glance of unspeakable gratitude he told her the murderer's name, and disappeared beneath the floor without a sound. Question: What did Margaret Barnekow give the phantom? Answer: a gold ring
Context: Once, when the wicked Emperor Tsin Schi Huang had conquered all the other kingdoms, and was traveling through the entire empire, he came to the homeland of Confucius. All his officials advised him not to do so, but he would not listen to them. Question: Where did the wicked Emperor Tsin Schi Huang go to after he had conquered all the other kingdoms? Answer: the homeland of Confucius
Context: And catching hold of Shiro's neck he held the dog's head to the ground, so that Shiro began to scratch and dig in order to free himself from the horrid old man's grasp. As he went on digging a foul smell was noticeable, and he at last came upon a refuse heap. Question: What did Shiro do to free himself from the old man's grasp? Answer: scratch and dig
Context: Presently in his course he came to a great field of castor-oil plants, ten or twelve feet high, big and bushy, but quite green and soft. Hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed Moti grasped one in passing, but its roots gave way, and he dashed on, with the whole plant looking like a young tree flourishing in his grip. Question: What did the enemy believe Moti was? Answer: a mad giant
Context: The giant passed on before me and crossed Eas Roe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhuirn, without wetting his foot. He was followed by Caoilte Mac Ronan, together with the swiftest of the Fenians. They enquired what was the cause of the delay that the giant had not been slain. ' Question: Why did Liagan Luaimneach and Caoilte Mac Ronan couch their javelins? Answer: They intended to drive it through the giant and kill him in Fionn's arms.
Context: For a long time they cast patiently, without receiving a single bite; the sun had grown low in the sky, and it seemed as if they would have to go home empty-handed, not even with a basket of roots to show; when the youth, who had baited his hook with raw meat, suddenly saw his line disappear under the water. They looked at each other with horror, cold shivers running down their spines; for though they had never beheld it, there was not a man amongst them who did not know what it was--the cub of the awful Bunyip! Question: What was the creature? Answer: the cub of the Bunyip
Context: A few hours later the farmer was aroused by the cries and groans of his wife. 'Well, perhaps you are right,' answered the farmer, 'but the sooner that fellow has his deserts, the better I shall be pleased,' and without more words he went to the stables and brought out a horse for himself and also the black Andalusian mare ridden by the rich man, while the poor brother, fearing more ill-treatment, started at once on foot. Question: Why did the elder brother fear more ill-treatment? Answer: He was accused by his brother and the farmer.
Context: "There is one point," they added, "of which we wish to speak. For another to usurp what belongs to her, we know to be the severest test of her goodness of heart, and consequently of your temper and feelings. Question: How did the strangers bless the couple to a good life? Answer: The hunter became celebrated in the chase.
Context: 'Yes, when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully,' said Lisa. 'And supposing someone had eaten the raspberry,' said Lisa. ' Question: What would happen if someone ate the very large raspberry? Answer: Then they would have eaten the worm, too.
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." So one stood forward, with sword and pot-lid, and made a cut at Tom. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " The wolf licked his chops, as if he was saying, "Wouldn't I enjoy a breakfast off a couple of yez!" Question: What will the king do after Tom makes the princess laugh? Answer: make Tom his son-in-law
Context: When night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till the prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did couldn't awake him. So there was no luck so far; but the next day the prince passed by again and looked at her, and saluted her kindly, as a prince might a farmer's daughter, and passed one; and soon the witch's daughter passed by, and found her combing her hair, and pearls and diamonds dropping from it. Question: What happened after the youngest princess came into the palace? Answer: The prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did couldn't awake him.
Context: So Murmur Goose-Egg began to chop fire-wood, and hewed to the line in such fashion that the chips fairly flew. Before long he had chopped up all that there was, kindling wood and building wood, beams and boards, and when he was through with it, he came and asked what he was to do now. Question: Why did the superintendent think it could not be possible for all the wood to be chopped? Answer: There was a lot of wood.
Context: When he awoke it was near midnight, and the moon had risen on the Crag. The bewildered man rose and tried to walk away from them, but turn in whichever direction he would the Fairies accompanied him, encircling him in a magic ring, out of which he could in no way go. Question: How will the poor man feel after he starts dancing? Answer: happy
Context: She was wholly occupied in this employment, without a thought of danger, when, all of a sudden, the king of the buffalos came dashing on with his herd of followers, and making sure of her by means of her drooping tresses, he placed her upon the back of one of his favorite buffalos, and away he cantered over the plains. To the king himself she paid no heed, and although he breathed forth to her every soft and gentle word he could think of, she sat still and motionless for all the world like one of the lowly bushes by the door of her father's lodge, when the summer wind has died away. Question: What did the daughter do at the lodge of the king of the buffalos? Answer: sat pensive and disconsolate in the lodge, among the other females
Context: Just then out of a cloud of dust in the distance the king saw Moti approaching at a hard gallop, looking indeed like a giant compared with the little beast he rode, whirling his castor-oil plant, which in the distance might have been an oak tree, and the sound of his revilings and shoutings came down upon the breeze! Behind him the dust cloud moved to the sound of the thunder of hoofs, whilst here and there flashed the glitter of steel. Question: How did the enemies feel after they saw Moti? Answer: scared
Context: Hidesato and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to the balcony, and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great balls of glowing fire coming nearer and nearer. The Dragon King stood by the warrior's side trembling with fear. Question: What were the two balls of fire? Answer: the centipede's eyes
Context: Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, but visited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest he should be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and shepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport. Question: What did Puck change himself into? Answer: a fly
Context: So he set to work and gathered together all the ashes which remained in the fire-place from the burning of the wonderful mortar. Then he set out in the hope of finding some great man to employ him, calling out loudly as he went along:  "Here comes the wonderful man who can make withered trees blossom! Question: What did the wicked neighbor do with the ashes in the fire-place? Answer: set out in the hope of finding some great man to employ him
Context: Undoubtedly he had given every giant in Ireland a considerable beating, barring Finn M'Coul himself. Finn, however, had a strong disinclination to meet a giant who could make a young earthquake or flatten a thunderbolt when he was angry. Question: Why was Far Rua coming to Causeway? Answer: to have a trial of strength with Finn
Context: From that time on the farmer-boy could make himself invisible, was able to see ghosts and devils, and had intercourse with the spirit-world. In cases of sickness, when people lay unconscious, he could call back their souls, and if some one had committed a sin he could plead for them. Question: What was the farmer able to do after he swallowed the elixir of life? Answer: make himself invisible, was able to see ghosts and devils, and had intercourse with the spirit-world
Context: At that moment the dragoon flung open the door, and shot off his pistol right above the maiden's head, so that she tottered and fell to the ground. Her nose was only half its original size, and her ugly cow's tail was tied back; but she was not as handsome, and any one who said so would not have been telling the truth. Question: What did the dragoon do when the old man told him to take the girl? Answer: stood as though rooted to the spot
Context: His life passed by, and each hour seemed happier than the last, when one day there rushed over him a terrible longing to see his parents. Sadly the princess shook her head, but she answered slowly, 'One way there is to bring you safely back, but I fear you will never agree to the conditions of the bargain.' Question: Why did Uraschimataro want to visit his old home? Answer: He longed to see his parents.
Context: Ali Baba brings the body home, where he entrusts Morgiana, a clever slave-girl in Cassim's household, with the task of making others believe that Cassim has died a natural death. There, overnight, the tailor stitches the pieces of Cassims' body back together, so that no one will be suspicious. Question: What task does Ali Baba entrust to Morgiana? Answer: making others believe that Cassim has died a natural death
Context: When Murmur Goose-Egg had nearly finished threshing, the enemy broke into the land, and war began. Then the king told him to gather people about him, and go to meet the foe, and do battle with him, for he thought the enemy would probably kill him. Question: Why did the king tell Murmur Goose-Egg to gather people and go meet the foe? Answer: He thought the enemy would probably kill him.
Context: He got all the finest leather in the town and caused gilded clasps to be made for the shoes, till everyone flocked to buy. One evening Manawyddan visited the furthest of his fields of wheat; and saw that it was ripe. Question: What did Manawyddan do after the shoemakers banded together in anger to kill him? Answer: left the town one night and proceeded to Narberth, taking with him a sheaf of wheat, which he sowed in three plots of ground
Context: I cannot creep into myself, however much I might wish to do so; I have to go on bearing roses. But I once saw how a rose was laid in the mistress's hymn-book, and how one of my roses found a place in the bosom of a young beautiful girl, and how another was kissed by the lips of a child in the glad joy of life. Question: What happens to the rose leaves that drop? Answer: they are blown away by the wind
Context: She had hardly spoken when the horse appeared, and mounting on his back she started for the village where the wedding was to be held. At first she was so delighted with the chance of a holiday from the work which she hated, that she noticed nothing, but very soon it struck her as odd that as she passed along the roads full of people they all laughed as they looked at her horse. Question: Why did the people make fun of Barbaik? Answer: because her hose had no tail
Context: He thought he would ponder deeply how he could employ that to the best advantage. It happened that while he was doing so, one evening, as Owasso and his wife were sitting on the banks of the lake, and the soft breeze swept over it, they heard a song, as if sung by some one at a great distance. Question: How will Owasso feel when his wife encourages him to escape? Answer: surprised
Context: So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, which troubled both the king and the queen greatly. Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent's hearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting into his litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten all along the road. On hearing these words the brother stopped and asked, 'Where did he find such a woman?' Question: Why was the prince worried his parents would not allow his marriage with the girl? Answer: She had only one hand.
Context: At last news reached the king that Moti had exchanged his horse for a live tiger; and the monarch himself came down, half disbelieving the tale, to see if it were really true. The king, however, did not share his pleasure at all, but called up a soldier to shoot the tiger, much to the relief of all the inmates of the serai except Moti. Question: What did Moti do after he met with the king at the serai? Answer: delightedly explaining and showing off his new possession
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: Who did Roc's betrothed torrent a deep love for? Answer: Sgiath Breac
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: How did the wife know the two women were total strangers in the country? Answer: There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence.
Context: "Why, you are a splendid workman," said the king, "but tell me, how much do you really eat at once," he continued, "for I am sure you are hungry?" If he were to have enough porridge, they would have to take twelve tons of meal to make it. Question: What happened because Murmur did not go to work about it very gently? Answer: The house nearly broke from its joints and he well-nigh tore down the entire castle.
Context: If I were only away and up above again," thought he, but he said nothing. I am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding, and I will hurry all I can. Question: Why did the rat give the youth the linen thread? Answer: so he could go home
Context: And the old man--it was Death himself--he nodded so strangely, it could just as well signify yes as no. But the old man was gone, and her little child was gone--he had taken it with him. Question: Who sat outside in the snow? Answer: a woman in long, black clothes
Context: In the Skalunda mountain, near the church, there once lived a giant in the early days, who no longer felt comfortable after the church had been built there. He decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells; so he emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea. Question: How did the giant feel about the ringing of the church bells? Answer: annoyed
Context: Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods with nobody near her but her little dog; for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning at her door. The cradle was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and ornaments were of the same precious stuff. Question: What did the woman tell the dog to do when the baby cried? Answer: halloo for her
Context: Then the whole company of crocodiles arranged themselves in the water so as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of Inaba. So the hare hopped off the island on to the strange bridge of crocodiles, counting as he jumped from one crocodile's back to the other:  "Please keep quite still, or I shall not be able to count. Question: How did the crocodiles arrange themselves in the water? Answer: a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of Inaba
Context: He was vain of his brass ferrule and silver top, and on the sofa lay two worked cushions, pretty but stupid. When the play at the little theatre began, the rest sat and looked on; they were requested to applaud and stamp, or crack, when they felt gratified with what they saw. Question: What was the audience asked to do when they liked the play? Answer: applaud, stamp, and crack
Context: A WIDOW had two daughters; one was pretty and industrious, the other was ugly and lazy. Now it happened once that as the spindle was bloody, she dipped it into the well to wash it; but it slipped out of her hand and fell in. Question: Why did she dip the spindle into the well? Answer: to wash it
Context: Not until long afterward was she altogether herself, and she told how she had firmly believed that her sweetheart himself, and all their friends and relatives had been there. He took her straight back to the village with him, and so that they need fear no such deviltry in the future, they celebrated their wedding while she was still clad in the bridal outfit of the underground folk. Question: Where did the fellow take his sweetheart? Answer: the village
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Where did Setanta set to go? Answer: Emania
Context: That pleased the others, and they sat there a long time discussing the day and the fairway. " "Well, there is a counter-spell for what we wish to do, and if it is used, it will go hard with us, for it will cost us nothing less than our lives!" Question: Why did the captain's wife want to be cautious that there was no one listening? Answer: They were planning to kill their husbands.
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: How did the Slender Red Champion feel receiving everything Morraha gave him? Answer: pleased
Context: He was lying in the road beating his wings, and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved. " I have not much food, nor are you likely to be able to help me much," said the king's son, "but still I can give you a little, for it is easy to see you need it." Question: Who did the youngest meet when he had ridden a while? Answer: a raven
Context: While the assembled bears stood looking with fear and wonder at their fallen champion the sky became darkened. An hundred gulls flew down from above and dripped upon the king's body a skin covered with pure white hair that glittered in the sun like silver. Question: What did the gulls do when they arrived with the King of the Polar Bears' hide? Answer: flew down from above and dripped upon the king's body a skin covered with pure white hair that glittered in the sun like silver
Context: In the castle there was a dragon who was over a thousand years old. Through him the dragon's daughter learned that the emperor was sending her the gifts, and she returned them with a gift of three great pearls, seven smaller pearls and a whole bushel of ordinary pearls. The emperor was much pleased and showed them to the wise man. Question: How will the emperor feel when he receives gifts from the dragon's daughter? Answer: pleased
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: Why did Sheen order the warriors to point their spears and javelins inwards towards the house? Answer: so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them
Context: As he went along he saw branches broken off and strewed behind, which guided him in his course; for these had been purposely cast along by the daughter. She immediately caught his eye, and knowing that it was her father come for her, she all at once appeared to relent in her heart, and, asking for the royal dipper, said to the king, "I will go and get you a drink of water." Question: How did the daughter appear to the king when she saw her father? Answer: She appeared to relent in her heart.
Context: At last the venerable dormouse himself undertook it, for the very good reason that no one else would. That is the reason why it is now one of the tiniest creatures upon the earth. In this business he was very expert, and he had a new bird-skin coat made, which was prettier than the one he had worn before. Question: What happened to the dormouse after it cut the cord? Answer: shrunk away to a very small size
Context: Hans took the calf, and set it on his head, and carried it home, and the calf scratched his face. You ought to have led home the calf, and tied it to the manger." Question: What happened when Hans carried the calf home on his head? Answer: the calf scratched his face
Context: It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face, and they looked at each other in silence. Then tears rose in the eyes of the elder, but winking them hastily away, he said:  'Brother, it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am; you can see that for yourself. Question: What did the elder son ask for? Answer: unfinished houses
Context: In the middle of the plain he perceived a post, and something waving at its top. As he passed some of those who were standing by, he came close to their ears, and as they heard the rapid whirr or murmur which this bird makes when it flies, they jumped aside, and asked each other what it could be. Question: Where did Maidwa perceive a post and something waving at its top? Answer: in the middle of the plain
Context: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep. And then he knew that the one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years, and he realised how heavy the punishment had been which the Wee Folk had laid upon him. Question: What did the poor man see on the grass? Answer: His can of milk
Context: The hare was now in a pitiful plight, all his beautiful white fur had been pulled out. Seeing the hare lying on the beach crying, they stopped and asked what was the matter. Question: What happened because the hare was in pain? Answer: He could hardly move.
Context: When he came up to the shore he was surprised to see four large, tall men, lying on the ice, spearing fish. I may find a way to teach them that I am not to be treated so lightly." When they stood up they could just see, over the fish's head, that it was the boy-man who was carrying it off. Question: Why did the boy steal the fish? Answer: He wanted to play a trick on the four men.
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. As soon as he reached them they paused for a moment as if to greet him. And, although a careful search was made, no trace of Thomas of Ercildoune was found; and to this day the country folk believe that the Hart and the Hind were messengers from the Elfin Queen, and that he went back to Fairy-land with them. Question: How did Thomas know that it was a summons from the Queen? Answer: The Queen said she would return for him someday.
Context: In a nursery where a number of toys lay scattered about, a money-box stood on the top of a very high wardrobe. The money-pig was stuffed so full that it could no longer rattle, which is the highest state of perfection to which a money-pig can attain. Question: Why was there a slit in the pig? Answer: so money can slip through
Context: "Here is the thing of which the princess was thinking," said he. To be sure," said the youth, and he drew forth the head from beneath his coat, and flung it on the table so that the table and all that was on it fell over. Question: What happened because the youth had what the princess was thinking of? Answer: She had to take the youth as she had promised.
Context: After a short time, the woman heard the cry of the dog, and running home as fast as she could, she found her child gone, and the dog too. The mother hurried off at full speed in pursuit, and as she flew along, she came, from time to time, to lodges inhabited by old women, who told her at what time the child-thief had passed; they also gave her shoes that she might follow on. Question: Who had the dog and child been taken by? Answer: an old woman from a distant country
Context: Once upon a time there were three little kittens, and their names were Mittens, Tom Kitten, and Moppet. They had dear little fur coats of their own; and they tumbled about the doorstep and played in the dust. Question: Where did the kittens play? Answer: in the dust
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: What made the King forget about the incident? Answer: His child was not taken away from him.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: What was wrong with the mill? Answer: The evil one often brought it to a stop.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: What were the black spots according to Aspenclog? Answer: balls he had already thrown up to the moon.
Context: Once the schoolmaster of Etnedal was staying in the mountains to fish. One Sunday morning, as he was lying there reading, it seemed as though he could hear church bells; sometimes they sounded faintly, as though from a great distance; at other times the sound was clear, as though carried by the wind. Question: How did the schoolmaster feel about the church bells? Answer: surprised
Context: "There it comes again, from the other side," said the Snow Man, who supposed the sun was showing himself once more. " If I could, I would slide along yonder on the ice, as I have seen the boys do. Question: Why couldn't the dog say "bow wow" properly? Answer: because he was quite hoarse
Context: This man's name was Ko-ko, the Owl; and hearing much of the wonderful achievements of the Wearer of the Ball, Ko-ko put on a big look, and announced that he was going to do something extraordinary himself. He would have taken away Onwee's war-club too, if he could have carried it; but although he was twice the size and girth of Onwee, he had not the strength to lift it; so he borrowed a club from an old chief, who was purblind, and mistook Ko-ko for his brother who was a brave man; and raising a terrible tumult with his voice, and a great dust with his heels, Ko-ko set out. Question: Who mistook Ko-ko for his brother? Answer: an old chief
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. " He wants," says the red-headed fellow, "to make hares of your best men." " So one stood forward, with sword and pot-lid, and made a cut at Tom. Question: What was Tom's business? Answer: make the beautiful princess laugh three times
Context: Presently in his course he came to a great field of castor-oil plants, ten or twelve feet high, big and bushy, but quite green and soft. Hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed Moti grasped one in passing, but its roots gave way, and he dashed on, with the whole plant looking like a young tree flourishing in his grip. Question: Why did Moti grasp one of the cator oil plants? Answer: hoped to escape from the back of his fiery steed
Context: "I am able to affirm with word of oath, that each prize--at least, those for which I voted--was given with just and proper consideration," said the old boundary post in the wood, who was a member of the committee of judges. " I always reckon the first prize by going through the alphabet from the beginning, and the second by going through from the end. Question: How many times has the boundary post been present at the distribution of prizes? Answer: seven
Context: In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and he held his court in the palace of Emain Macha. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called the children of a king. Question: What did Ness plan to get from Fergus? Answer: the kingdom
Context: The old man and woman at once set to work to pound rice in the kitchen mortar to make cakes for Momotaro to take with him on his journey. At last the cakes were made and Momotaro was ready to start on his long journey. Question: What did the old man and woman make for Momotaro? Answer: cakes
Context: cried the wicked father, making his appearance at the opening and looking down. When he looked back and saw that the wicked father was gaining upon him, Ko-koor mounted a tree, as had Onwee Bahmondang before, and fired off a number of arrows, but as they were no more than common arrows, he got nothing by it, but was obliged to descend, and run again for life. Question: Why did Ko-ko's arrows have no effect on the father? Answer: They were no more than common arrows.
Context: The next day the hunter accordingly went into the woods, and his son, calling the boy from the tree, urged him to go with him to kill the squirrels. The children were never parted from each other; and when the hunter looked upon the strange boy, he seemed to see living in him the better spirit of his lost wife. Question: Why did the beautiful boy object to hunting for squirrels? Answer: The hunter was near.
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: Why did the six sons plan to leave? Answer: to go forth and look for wives
Context: When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. She lay in a green opening in the midst of a thick, dark wood, and beside her lay the bundle of poor belongings she had brought from home. Question: What happened when the maiden awoke? Answer: The prince as well as the castle had disappeared.
Context: When he was about to leave, the man made him a present of a new fishing-boat, full of meal, and tackle and other useful things. All you need do is to follow the cormorant when he heads for the open sea, then you will be on the right course," said the man. " Question: Why did Isaac get homesick? Answer: He had been at Urdost for a long time.
Context: I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune. Yes, and the clergyman's wife noticed me and said I was the best piece of linen in the whole parish. Question: What did the clergyman's wife say about the linen? Answer: it was the best piece of linen in the whole parish
Context: The crane grew large enough for him to ride on it with comfort. The bird never stopped for rest or food, but as it was a paper bird it doubtless did not require any nourishment, and strange to say, neither did Sentaro. Question: Why did the bird not need to stop for nourishment? Answer: It was a paper bird.
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: Who did Fionn, Oisin, Caolite, Mac Lughaidh, and Diarmuid O'Dubhain perceive approaching them? Answer: a rough, tall, huge giant
Context: The North Wind had just enough strength left to be able to set down the maiden on the strand, beneath the windows of the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon. The first person who showed herself was the monster with the nose, whom the prince was to marry. Question: What did the North Wind need before he could set out for home again? Answer: rest many a long day
Context: If I were only away and up above again," thought he, but he said nothing. I am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding, and I will hurry all I can. Question: Why was the youth in no hurry to go down the hole again? Answer: He did not like being down there.
Context: He met two men who took him along with them, and he saw a new world in the midst of the waters of the Yellow River. The Prince of the Dragon's Cave seemed to be of a mild and kindly disposition and said: "We can make use of such a skilful lad. Question: Why didn't Aduan know that he had been drowned? Answer: met two men who took him along with them and saw a new world in the midst of the waters of the Yellow River
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: Why did the prince say no to the wolf? Answer: He already gave his food away.
Context: But now the time was come for Sylvia to receive her gift, and all her companions were assembled. This lovely gift makes life a constant happiness to its possessor, and to all who are brought into contact with her. Question: Why did it grieve people to see Sylvia's face as pale? Answer: It made the environment less lovely.
Context: "When all was ready for the first representation, the whole company requested permission to speak to me before appearing in public. The lady who acted the part of the queen expected to be treated as a queen off the stage, as well as on it, or else she said she should get out of practice. Question: why did the lady who acted as the queen expect to be treated as a queen off stage? Answer: otherwise she would get out of practice
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. If White Feather should overcome the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on, until they had all measured speed with him. By a dexterous use of the vine, he gained the first race, struck down his competitor, and cut off his head. Question: What happened after White Feather defeated the first giant? Answer: White feather struck down his competitor and cut off his head.
Context: THE rain trickled down his back, and for nearly an hour he stared at the float. "I will eat a butterfly sandwich, and wait till the shower is over," said Mr. Jeremy Fisher. Question: How did Mr. Jeremy feel after an hour of staring at the float? Answer: tiresome
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Who were the bishops and abbots of the Church? Answer: Murtough's three brothers
Context: It really delighted him now to think of all the hardships and adversities he had suffered, now he could rightly discern his good fortune and all the beauty that greeted him. Some little children now came into the garden and threw bread and corn into the water, and the smallest of them cried: "There's a new one!" Question: What did the great swans do to the duckling? Answer: swam round him and caressed him with their bills
Context: Long, long ago, there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan, a traveling monkey-man, who earned his living by taking round a monkey and showing off the animal's tricks. One evening the man came home in a very bad temper and told his wife to send for the butcher the next morning. Question: How did the man earn his living? Answer: taking round a monkey and showing off the animal's tricks
Context: She got out upon the highway, where the sun shone upon her, and the dust powdered her all over as she marched across the way. "I've got to a dry place now, and no mistake," said the Toad. " Question: How did the little toad feel about the new environment? Answer: pleased
Context: Just then another King's son passed by, carrying a great bag on his back. When the hare heard these kind words he felt very grateful to the man. The little animal hid nothing from his friend, but told him frankly how he had played a trick on the crocodiles and how he had come across the bridge they had made, thinking that he wished to count their number. Question: What did the hare ask from the man at the end of his tale? Answer: some medicine that would cure him and make his fur grow again
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: Who put her head through the bridle? Answer: Brown Allree
Context: "It may be so with you," he answered; "indeed, I have no doubt that it is, but with me it is different. When she made her great public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she went out, and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pink stars. Question: What did the Rocket think about himself? Answer: He thought himself remarkable.
Context: Then Simon scratched his head and said, 'I can't understand it at all. But Susan replied, 'I always told you our old dog was the best dog in the world--but as usual you thought you knew so much better. Question: What did the fox do with the sausages? Answer: He carried them away for himself.
Context: But when Isaac got underway, and looked around, there was no Udrost in sight. When the time came, Isaac sailed to join the man of Udrost's fishing-craft. Question: What happened when Isaac got underway? Answer: There was no Udrost in sight.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: How did the old man feel when he saw that everything changed? Answer: surprised
Context: WHEN this happened, the Flopsy Bunnies went across the field to a rubbish heap, in the ditch outside Mr. McGregor's garden. One day--oh joy!--there were a quantity of overgrown lettuces, which had "shot" into flower. Question: Why did Benjamin place a paper bag over his head? Answer: to keep off the flies
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: Where did Aggo live? Answer: in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it
Context: To this sacred spot Leelinau had made her way at an early age, gathering strange flowers and plants, which she would bring home to her parents, and relate to them all the haps and mishaps that had occurred in her rambles. If her father remained abroad in the hunt later than usual, and it was feared that he had been overwhelmed by the tempest, or had met with some other mischance, Leelinau offered up her prayers for safety at the Manitowok. Question: Why were Leelinau's parents not able to restrain Leelinau's frequent visits to the fairy wood? Answer: Leelinau was of so gentle and delicate a temper that they feared to thwart her.
Context: The mother stork sat in it with her four little ones, who were stretching out their heads with their pointed black bills that had not yet turned red. That he might not appear quite idle while standing sentry, he had drawn one leg up under him, as is the manner of storks. Question: why might someone think the stork was carved in marble? Answer: because he stood so still
Context: One day there was much excitement in the home, for the father had been suddenly summoned to the capital on business. Indeed, in those days it was as great an undertaking to go up to the capital as it is for a Japanese to make a voyage to Europe now. Question: What was difficult about the journey from Matsuyama to Kyoto? Answer: The roads were bad.
Context: This wise and good Emperor did not rest till he had secured peace and prosperity throughout his whole land. The Empress and the courtiers were so frightened that they ran away screaming. Question: Why was the Emperor beloved by his subjects? Answer: He had secured peace and prosperity throughout his whole land.
Context: answered Bale, nine miles away, "the sun and I wake together! Question: Why was Starkard not doing well? Answer: He ate salmon morning, noon and night.
Context: So Grethel gave Hans a young goat; then he said,  "Good-bye, Grethel," and she said, "Good-bye, Hans." So Hans carried off the goat, and tied its legs together, and put it in his pocket, and by the time he got home it was suffocated. Question: What happened to the goat when Hans put it in his pocket? Answer: it was suffocated
Context: "She must have climbed into the cart when I left the town," he said; "but waken her, wife, and we will hear what she has to say." So the farmer's wife shook the girl by the arm, and Miss Muffet sat up in the cart and rubbed her eyes and wondered where she was. Question: How did the wife say Miss Muffet would earn her living? Answer: help her make the cheeses
Context: One day he sallied forth in search of adventures, for he had the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle. The monster seemed to be asleep, and as it breathed, fire and smoke came out of its nostrils. Question: What did the serpent-dragon's body look like? Answer: the trunk of a large pine tree
Context: In the mean time, Aggo Dah Gauda had reached home, and finding that his daughter had been stolen, his indignation was so thoroughly awakened that he would have forthwith torn every hair from his head, but, being entirely bald, this was out of the question, so, as an easy and natural vent to his feelings, Aggo hopped off half a mile in every direction. There having been a frosty night or two since, the water was so covered with thin ice that Aggo could not venture upon it, even with one leg. Question: Why could Aggo not easily track the buffalo-king when he reached the banks of the river? Answer: There having been a frosty night or two since, the water was so covered with thin ice that Aggo could not venture upon it.
Context: Changed, but the same, with ghastly looks and arms that were withered, she appeared to her sons as they returned from the hunt, in the twilight, in the close of the day. Oftenest it was her bare brow, white, and bony, and bodyless, that they saw floating in the air, and making a mock of them in the wild paths of the forest, or in the midnight darkness of the lodge. Question: Why did the boys and their father leave the country? Answer: She was a terror to all their lives, and she made every spot where they had seen her, hideous to the living eye.
Context: 'I shall row out a little way--only a very little way,' he thought. The pea-shell boats had travelled so far that they only looked like little specks on the ocean. ' The oars were locked up in the boat-house, and Little Lasse had not noticed that the boat was empty. Question: What did Little Lasse want to do with his father's boat? Answer: seize Hercules on the coast of Asia, and then row home again to Europe
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Why was everyone surprised when Setanta had a passion for arms and martial life? Answer: It was premature and violent.
Context: As time passed on, the king's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide. The queen observed this with an angry eye, for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters. Question: Why did no youths take interest in the queen's daughters? Answer: They were homely, evil of disposition, and no one knew any good of them.
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " If ever I find you come within seven miles of any town----" He said no more, but spit in his fist, and gave a flourish of his club. Sure enough, he was laying out how he'd settle poor Tom next day. " So," says Tom to the King, "will you let me have the other half of the princess if I bring you the flail?" " Question: How will the wolf feel dancing for so long? Answer: tired
Context: But the wily Fox was fond of butter, and he made up his mind that he would have it all to himself. It behoveth us to have foresight, and to lay up in store for the spring, when the grain is all threshed, and the stackyards are bare, and the poultry have gone to market. Question: What did the Fox and the Wolf do after the Wolf agreed with the Fox? Answer: dug a hole, buried the Keg, and went off hunting as usual
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: What did the couple ask for at the temple? Answer: a child
Context: And when Notscha in the excess of his rage turned his fiery lance upon him, Wen Dschu stepped back a pace, shook the seven-petaled lotus from his sleeve, and threw it into the air. But the latter did not notice him; instead he entered the cave and thanked Wen Dschu for the severe lesson which he had given Notscha. Question: Why didn't Notscha's master save Notscha from getting beaten? Answer: Notscha needed to be given a severe lesson.
Context: THERE was once a regular student, who lived in a garret and had no possessions. The huckster could afford this, and therefore the goblin remained with him--which was very shrewd of the goblin. Question: Who lived with the huckster? Answer: a goblin
Context: They traveled slowly, and looked with double joy on the beautiful country over which they had both so lately passed with hearts ill at ease. On the following morning, when they were about to start, he pulled from the side of the lodge a bag, which he presented to Maidwa, saying, "Grandchild, I give you this; it contains a present for you; and I hope you will live happily till old age." Question: How did Maidwa and the Red Swan feel when they looked on the beautiful country over? Answer: joy
Context: "Why," said she, "that's Finn's bread--the only bread he ever eats when at home; but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there. "I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he to Oonagh, "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer." Question: Why did Far Rua want to see the child in the cradle? Answer: to know what Finn's child looked like
Context: Two holes were left for the eyes, and Ivan carefully shaped out the mouth. And the loose snow fell away from Snowflake as an egg shell does from an egg, and it was a little girl whom Marie held in her arms. Question: What did the snow-child do when Ivan carefully shaped its mouth? Answer: smiled at him
Context: "Why," answered the old man, "it is a matter of course that a father should bring up his son. When you are older it will be your turn to take care of us, so after all there will be no profit or loss between us--all will be equal. Question: How did the old man feel towards Momotaro's words? Answer: bothered
Context: In the evening her husband returned from hunting a long way off, and found his wife in tears. 'Well, never mind now--go to sleep,' said he, 'and to-morrow I will go and pull up the pumpkin tree, and that will punish her for treating you so badly.' Question: Why was the brother's wife in tears? Answer: She could not get another pumpkin to eat.
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: Where did the girl rest after she left the snake's home? Answer: near the town where her husband and his father dwelt
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: Who did Duivsech seek? Answer: Bishop Cairnech, the half-brother of her husband
Context: When he was safe on shore the little hare said to him:  'Now this is what you have to do: dress yourself like a Breton seeking a place as stable-boy, and go and offer your services to your father. The young man did as the little hare bade him, and he went to his father's castle and enquired if they were not in want of a stable-boy. Question: What does the father order the youngest son to do? Answer: to groom it
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Why did the King reach for the vessel? Answer: It was beautiful.
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: Why did the poor man was reluctant to obey his master? Answer: The fairy threatened him.
Context: In spring, when the swallows and storks came, the fir-tree asked them, 'Do you know where they were taken? 'Rejoice in your youth,' said the sunbeams, 'rejoice in the sweet growing time, in the young life within you.' Question: Why did the stork believe that the fir-trees were going to Egypt? Answer: The many new ships had the scent of fir-trees.
Context: Then she had to sit down and remain seated, for the chair had power to hold fast all that approached it. And when she heard that she promised to let him have the sword, if he would release her. Question: What did the comrade want in exchange for releasing the witch from the chair? Answer: a sword that hung above the door
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." Indeed, to tell the truth, she was supposed to be a fairy herself. Now, it so happened that Oonagh had a sister named Granua living opposite to them, on the very top of Cullamore, which I have mentioned already. Question: What did Granua see when she looked about? Answer: the biggest giant that ever was known coming up from Dungannon
Context: Suddenly he heard a hideous cry from the stern of the boat, and felt certain that it was the drang, who was singing his death-song. Then he prayed God to guard his wife and children, for he thought his last hour had come. Question: Why did Isaac grow hungry, thirsty, and weary? Answer: He had been on the boat for a very long time.
Context: When Jack had got his bagpipes he said, 'Daddy, do go to the smithy and have the house cock shod for me; then I'll ride off and trouble you no more.' Having reached the forest he made the cock fly up to the top of a very tall tree with him, and there he sat looking after his pigs and donkeys, and he sat on and on for several years till he had quite a big herd; but all this time his father knew nothing about him. Question: What will Jack my Hedgehog do for several years while he is away from home? Answer: look after the animals
Context: The dog went out the same day hunting upon the banks of a river. When he reached home he threw it down, as is the custom, at the door of the lodge before he entered. Question: How did the giant feel when his stone turned into a fat beaver? Answer: delighted
Context: 'Yes,' said Aina, 'if we had only two good meat sandwiches now.' As she said that, she felt something in her hand, and when she looked down, she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken, and at the same time Lisa said: 'How very queer! Question: What will happen after Lisa wishes for a glass of milk? Answer: She will feel a large glass of milk between her fingers.
Context: When I saw I was in a man's shape I said I would take the child back to his father and mother, as I knew the grief they were in after him. I knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me, and I said I would cure him if I got a good reward. Question: Why was the old hag's son groaning? Answer: His hand had been bitten from his wrist by a dog.
Context: Otto felt rather ashamed: he quite understood what it meant, but he thought that the old man's revenge was a noble one. The raspberry king had also remembered the big sister, for when she went in to set the table for dinner, she found eleven big baskets of most beautiful raspberries, and no one knew how they had come there, but everyone guessed. Question: What did the big sister find when she went to set the table for dinner? Answer: eleven big baskets of most beautiful raspberries
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Why did the widow call her son a thief? Answer: He didn't do any good at six-feet and over nineteen years.
Context: Uraschimataro agreed willingly, and in another moment they were deep, deep down, with fathoms of blue water above their heads. But if Uraschimataro was astonished at the beauty of the outside, he was struck dumb at the sight of the hall within, which was lighted by the blaze of fish scales. Question: Where did the turtle take Uraschimataro? Answer: the palace of Ringu
Context: They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in. 'I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen,' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled. Question: What will happen after the king warns the couple to not open the lid? Answer: The wife will be curious what is inside the soup-tureen.
Context: But the boy told them to throw the last cord of wood overboard, billet by billet, and no two billets at once. That is something you might just as well let be," said the cabin-boy, "seeing that you no longer have any wives." Question: Why did the captain and quartermasters want to write to their wives? Answer: They did not know the wives planned to kill them.
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: Why did the King immediately agree to the voice's condition? Answer: He wanted to get out of the well.
Context: One day I heard some one say that the flower deserved a better pot. I was thumped hard on my back, which was a great affliction, and the flower was put into a better pot. Question: what did someone say about the pot one day? Answer: the flower deserved a better pot
Context: His ordinary customers, knowing this, took care always to provide him with something to drink. He was feeling sure that his mysterious friend must live somewhere in the neighbourhood. Question: How was the stranger different from Canonbie Dick's ordinary customers? Answer: The old man never provided him with something to drink.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig. Go to the devil," said the man, "he will be the first to rid you of it." Question: What did the peasant want to do? Answer: sell a pig
Context: "BUT as to a nest--there is no difficulty: I have a sackful of feathers in my wood-shed. "THIS is my summer residence; you would not find my earth--my winter house--so convenient," said the hospitable gentleman. Question: What was the dismal-looking house built of? Answer: faggots and turf
Context: I have lost my rod and basket; but it does not much matter, for I am sure I should never have dared to go fishing again!" SIR ISAAC NEWTON wore his black and gold waistcoat,  AND Mr. Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise brought a salad with him in a string bag. Question: What was Sir Issac Newton wearing? Answer: black and gold waistcoat
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Who married a prince? Answer: Dectera
Context: Then he blew himself up, and made himself so large and thick that he was quite horrible to look at. Gradually the North Wind grew weary, and became weaker and weaker. Question: Why did the North Wind get weaker and weaker? Answer: He was flying for a long time.
Context: You can see how many soldiers I have, and if the king chooses to listen to me, we can agree to become friends, I will aid him against all his enemies, and what we undertake will succeed." And the more they brought the king's officers to eat, the stronger they inclined to the opinion that the king's daughter would make a good wife for the duke. Question: How did the captain feel about the duke's proposal? Answer: pleased
Context: At length grew hungry, so the young woman was sent home to bring them food, and also to give the horses their dinner. When she went into the stables, she suddenly saw the heavy pack-saddle of the speckled mare just over her head. Question: Why wasn't the young woman in the kitchen or the dairy? Answer: She got the horses' dinner.
Context: At length on his last little rush--Pickles found that the shop was empty. Of course there are the trades-men's carts--the butcher, the fish-man and Timothy Baker. Question: What did Ginger and Pickles do after they close the shop? Answer: Ginger was living in the warren.
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: Why did the strange men give the Abbot absolution? Answer: The birds sang sweetly.
Context: She had been sitting in her arm-chair, telling us a long, beautiful tale; and when it was finished, she said she was tired, and leaned her head back to sleep awhile. She was laid in a black coffin, looking mild and beautiful in the white folds of the shrouded linen, though her eyes were closed; but every wrinkle had vanished, her hair looked white and silvery, and around her mouth lingered a sweet smile. Question: What happened after Grandmother finished telling the tale? Answer: she took a nap and then passed away
Context: One day he sallied forth in search of adventures, for he had the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle. He had not gone far when he came to the bridge of Seta-no-Karashi spanning one end of the beautiful Lake Biwa. No sooner had he set foot on the bridge than he saw lying right across his path a huge serpent-dragon. He was a brave man, however, and putting aside all fear went forward dauntlessly. Question: Who will the strange-looking man turn out to be? Answer: the serpent-dragon
Context: The North Wind had just enough strength left to be able to set down the maiden on the strand, beneath the windows of the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon. The first person who showed herself was the monster with the nose, whom the prince was to marry. Question: Where did the North Wind set the maiden? Answer: on the strand, beneath the windows of the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon
Context: This was the more to be regretted, as the season had arrived when they were soon to go to a southern country to pass the winter, and the children were only waiting to become a little stronger and more expert on the wing to set out on the journey. Finding that their elder brother did not return, they resolved to go in search of him. Question: Where did the falcons find their elder brother? Answer: in the upper branches of a sycamore-tree
Context: "And that is the truth," the woman replied, "for he grants my every wish before it is spoken." "Well," said the woman, "if that will help, I will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it, for then he always takes a little noon-day nap." Question: What did the husband still have a bit of in him? Answer: a bit of deceit
Context: Just then out of a cloud of dust in the distance the king saw Moti approaching at a hard gallop, looking indeed like a giant compared with the little beast he rode, whirling his castor-oil plant, which in the distance might have been an oak tree, and the sound of his revilings and shoutings came down upon the breeze! Behind him the dust cloud moved to the sound of the thunder of hoofs, whilst here and there flashed the glitter of steel. Question: Who could not keep up on foot with the mad rush? Answer: one fat officer
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What did the snake tell the girl to do? Answer: go into the lake
Context: Come and look out over the highway, where you can see the people." Have an ear to hear and the right heart to feel, and you will soon invent something. Question: From whom does the young man receive aspiration? Answer: the crowd
Context: The following evening the Prince dressed himself for the tournament. Place yourself at the window with your sisters; I will ride by and throw you the silver apple. Question: Why did the king appoint a second tournament? Answer: The Princess did not seem to care about any of the Princes.
Context: When I entered the city the onlookers were crowded together like walls. But I thought this too great an honor and greeted her below, on the steps. Five or six visitors sat in a circle about the princess, and a general led me to my place. Question: What happened when the general was at the banquet? Answer: A messenger informed them that the robber Tschauna had invaded their land.
Context: The goddess said: "For hundreds of years my family has been living in the depth of the Eastern Sea. And not long ago, our enemy Pi-Lo himself wanted to deliver an imperial letter in the cave of the Sea of Dungting. Question: Who has done much good to mankind and was highly honored? Answer: the mistress's father
Context: Now Sentaro determined to set out to find the hermits, and if he could, to become one, so that he might obtain the water of perpetual life. So he left his old home to the care of his relatives, and started out on his quest. Question: Where on Mount Fuji were the hermits said to have live? Answer: the highest peaks
Context: "I think I can take you with me if you wish to go," said Momotaro. "This is the best kind of cake there is in Japan," said Momotaro. " Question: What happened because Momotaro's cakes were the best kind in Japan? Answer: He cannot spare the dog a whole one.
Context: So he made one excuse after another, but the Wolf, who was getting more and more suspicious every moment, would not listen to him. So, as he had not courage to tell the truth, he was forced at last to swear an oath also, and this was what he swore:      "If it be that I stole the butter; if it be, if it be--     Then let some most deadly punishment fall on me, fall on me--     Whirrum wheeckam, whirrum wheeckam,     Whirram whee, whirram whee!" Question: Why did the Fox swear an oath? Answer: He had not courage to tell the truth.
Context: When night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till the prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did couldn't awake him. So there was no luck so far; but the next day the prince passed by again and looked at her, and saluted her kindly, as a prince might a farmer's daughter, and passed one; and soon the witch's daughter passed by, and found her combing her hair, and pearls and diamonds dropping from it. Question: How did the youngest princess feel after she could not wake up the prince? Answer: sad
Context: The king's daughter answered:  "Are you the troll who is coming to carry me away?" " She complied with his request, and Silverwhite laid his head in her lap. Question: Why did the princess feel glad? Answer: such a brave hero was going to defend her
Context: Once upon a time there was a prince or a duke or whatever you choose to call him, but at any rate a noble tremendously high-born, who did not want to stay at home. He at once found friends and acquaintances, no matter where he came; for whoever has a full trough can always find pigs to thrust their snouts into it. Question: What happened because the duke had unheard of amounts of money? Answer: Wherever he went he was well received, and hobnobbed with the very finest people.
Context: It happened that an old sick man who lived near by had begged to be carried out and to be laid at the foot of the wall so that the beams of the rising sun might fall upon him, and he would be able to talk with his friends as they passed by to their work. But so it was; and as the steeple opposite was touched by the golden light, the poor man shut his eyes and sprang forward. Question: How did the elder brother fall on the old man? Answer: He jumped from the wall.
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: What did the king find in the trunk? Answer: the child and the hand
Context: Now it happened one day that all the paper in the tub was taken out and laid on the hearth to be burned. The children in the house stood round the hearth to watch the blaze, for paper always flamed up so prettily, and afterwards, among the ashes, there were so many red sparks to be seen running one after the other, here and there, as quick as the wind. Question: Why was the paper not sold at the shop? Answer: because it had been written on
Context: When he had returned, he was sick with longing, and could neither eat nor sleep. Mother Hia brought him all sorts of dainties, looked after him three or four times a day, and stroked his forehead with loving care. Question: How did Mother Hia feel when Aduan was sick? Answer: unhappy
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: What did the Weendigo do when there was no deer? Answer: said nothing
Context: She made no resistance, but turning as she left the lodge, she cast upon Bokwewa a smile of kind regard, and was at once, with her companion, gone from his view. It is a long distance to the present abiding-place of your wife, and there are so many charms and temptations by the way that I fear you will be led astray and forget your errand. Question: What did Bokwewa do when Kwasynd said he was going to look for his wife? Answer: tried to dissuade him from it
Context: The wily horse-dealer thought that he saw a chance of driving a good bargain. The gold that the stranger gave him was not the gold that was in use at the time, but was fashioned into Unicorns, and Bonnet-pieces, and other ancient coins. Question: What did the horse-dealer do whenever he came across a suitable horse? Answer: lead it over Bowden Moor after dark, and he was sure to meet the mysterious, white-headed stranger
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: Where did Lugh and the others fly to? Answer: the dwelling-place of the Sidhe
Context: When she came to take them home Kintaro would get on her back and have a ride to her cave. He was very fond of the deer too, and would often put his arms round the creature's neck to show that its long horns did not frighten him. Question: What did Kintaro do to show the deer that its long horns did not frighten him? Answer: put his arms round the creature's neck
Context: When they retired to rest the Princess feared lest Jack should kiss her because of his prickles, but he told her not to be alarmed as no harm should befall her. When he was about to lie down in bed he would creep out of his hedgehog skin, and leave it lying at the bedside; then the men must rush in, throw the skin into the fire, and stand by till it was entirely burnt up. Question: Why did the Princess fear a kiss from Jack my Hedgehog? Answer: his prickles
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: Why was the giant half confused and sickened? Answer: the fight that he had made the day before
Context: She was still more angry when they made no answer to her complaint; but when she found that they were stark dead, and placed in this way to mock her, her fury was very great indeed. The old Toad-Woman was very anxious to get forward, but the snakeberry-vines kept spreading out on every side; and they still grow and grow, and spread and spread; and to this day the wicked old Toad-Woman is busy picking the berries, and she will never be able to get beyond to the other side, to disturb the happiness of the young hunter and his mother, who still live, with their faithful dog, in the shadow of the beautiful wood-side where they were born. Question: Why did the woman stoop down to pick and eat the berries? Answer: She was almost as fond of these berries as she was of fat bears.
Context: IF YOU should chance, after a tempest, to cross a field where buckwheat is growing, you may observe that it looks black and singed, as if a flame of fire had passed over it. And should you ask the reason, a farmer will tell you, "The lightning did that." Question: What will a farmer tell you about why the buckwheat looks black and singed? Answer: The lightning did that
Context: He left his boy to take care of the lodge while he was absent, hunting and roaming about from place to place, striving to forget his misfortune, and searching for the wicked Weendigo. He shot another, which was lost in the same way; and returning to the lodge to replenish his quiver, he happened to espy one of the lucky arrows, which the first Weendigo had given to his father, hanging upon the side of the lodge. Question: What did the hunter leave his boy to do? Answer: take care of the lodge while the hunter was absent
Context: "Hold a minute," interposed the kettle, as Maidwa was about to dip in his ladle. As soon as Maidwa had partaken of food and laid aside his leggings and moccasins, the old magician commenced telling him how he had lost his scalp, the insults it was receiving, the pain he suffered thereby, his wishes to regain it, the many unsuccessful attempts that had already been made, and the numbers and power of those who retained it. Question: Why did Maidwa listen to the magician with solemn attention? Answer: He wanted to know where the Red Swan was.
Context: But now the time was come for Sylvia to receive her gift, and all her companions were assembled. This lovely gift makes life a constant happiness to its possessor, and to all who are brought into contact with her. Question: What did Sylvia wish for? Answer: a quiet spirit
Context: The king enjoined it upon the others in the lodge as a special edict, on pain of instant death, to give to Aggo's daughter every thing that she wanted, and to be careful not to displease her. The king himself went out hunting to obtain the most dainty meats, both of animals and wild fowl, to pleasure her palate; and he treated her every morning to a ride upon one of the royal buffalos, who was so gentle in his motions as not even to disturb a single one of the tresses of the beautiful hair of Aggo's daughter as she paced along. Question: Why did the king go out hunting to obtain the most dainty meats, both of animals and wild fowl? Answer: to pleasure Aggo's daughter's palate
Context: So Jonas and Lena used to say of him 'Look, there goes Walter, who shoots the wolves.' He had besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle, to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon as he had killed them. Question: What did Walter arm himself with for the wolf hunt? Answer: his pop-gun, his bow, and his air-pistol
Context: They then took an affectionate leave of each other, Wassamo enjoining it upon his cousin, at risk of his life, to not look back when he had once started to return. Accordingly he at once dispatched his pipe-bearer and confidential aid to summon various Spirits of his acquaintance, and set the time for them to come. Question: What did the Old Spirit reply regarding the requests of the Indian people? Answer: He would attend to all, but he must first invite his friends to smoke with him.
Context: He again exacted a promise of secresy, and went back to his tree. When the hunter came in he was surprised to see the ashes scattered about. " The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. "Why, my son," he said "you must play very hard every day; and what is it that you do, all alone, to throw the lodge in such confusion?" My son," he said, "you must be very foolish when alone to play so. "Father," he said, "I found a boy in the hollow of that tree, near the lodge, where you placed my mother's bones." Question: Why did the hunter begin to question his son? Answer: The hunter heard two people playing.
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Why did the man believe the woman would change him back? Answer: She saw he was doing mischief.
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Where was the prince's patrimony? Answer: along the shores of the Muirnict
Context: At that moment the dragoon flung open the door, and shot off his pistol right above the maiden's head, so that she tottered and fell to the ground. Her nose was only half its original size, and her ugly cow's tail was tied back; but she was not as handsome, and any one who said so would not have been telling the truth. Question: How will the dragoon feel about marring the girl? Answer: scared
Context: But the rooster could lay no silver coins at all, and only answered "Kikeriki! Then the peasant fell into a rage, wandered back to the devil's place, complained about the rooster, and told how absolutely worthless he was. Question: Where did the peasant wander back to? Answer: the devil's place
Context: Get up, acushla, and show this decent little man something that won't be unworthy of your father, Finn M'Coul." The latter squeezed and squeezed the stone, but to no purpose; he might pull the rocks of Lumford's Glen asunder, and flatten a thunderbolt, but to squeeze water out of a white stone was beyond his strength. Question: How did Finn trick the giant into thinking he squeezed water out of the stone? Answer: Finn took the stone, slyly exchanged it for the curds, and squeezed until the whey oozed out.
Context: He dwelt in a gloomy cavern on the top of the mountain, and used to wade over to the mainland in search of prey; when he would throw half a dozen oxen upon his back, and tie three times as many sheep and hogs round his waist, and march back to his own abode. The giant had done this for many years when Jack resolved to destroy him. Question: Why did the giant wade over the mainland? Answer: in search of prey such as oxen, sheep, and hogs
Context: He fell very ill, sent for doctors of every kind, even bonesetters, but they, none of them, could find out what was the matter with him, or even give him any relief. At last there came a foreign doctor, who declared that the Golden Blackbird alone could cure the sick man. Question: What did the foreign doctor declare? Answer: The Golden Blackbird alone could cure the sick man.
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. So she asked her what sort of a woman the king ought to choose for a wife. This and much more she told the king's daughter, and the princess believed it, as children will. Question: Why did the princess believe that the woman knew all there was to know about everything? Answer: The woman talked to the princess frequently and paid her compliments.
Context: The top, also, was no longer young; but there came a day when he looked handsomer than ever; for he was gilded all over. He was now a golden top, and whirled and danced about till he hummed quite loud, and was something worth looking at; but one day he leaped too high, and then he, also, was gone. Question: How did the top change after several years? Answer: He looked handsomer than ever for he was glided all over.
Context: So trouble and anger wrought in the witch woman, and she waited the day to be revenged on Murtough, for he being yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm. So when Sheen (for Sheen or "Storm" was the name men gave to her) saw the King seated on the fairy mound and all his comrades parted from him, she arose softly, and combed her hair with her comb of silver adorned with little ribs of gold, and she washed her hands in a silver basin wherein were four golden birds sitting on the rim of the bowl, and little bright gems of carbuncle set round about the rim. Question: What name did the men give the witch? Answer: Sheen
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: How did Hyacinthia feel when the Prince did not return? Answer: betrayed
Context: Then the young Prince answered with a proud smile:-"I am the son of the King and my name is Yamato, and I have been sent by my father as the avenger of evil to bring death to all rebels! The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. Question: What did Takeru do before he died? Answer: gave the Prince a new name
Context: The dog went out the same day hunting upon the banks of a river. When he reached home he threw it down, as is the custom, at the door of the lodge before he entered. Question: What happened after the dog drew out a stone? Answer: The stone instantly became a beaver.
Context: Hand it to me," he said, when he had approached near enough to receive it. In a short time they reached the magician's lodge, which stood upon the further shore, a little distance back from the lake. Question: Why did Owasso ask the Manito to take his little brother? Answer: The little brother would starve.
Context: But there was no one to whom the king could entrust his daughter while he was away at war. So he had a great tower built out in the forest, provided it with a plentiful store of supplies. Question: Why did the king have a great tower built out in the forest? Answer: There was no one to whom the king could entrust his daughter while he was away at war.
Context: There lived in Boston a wise and ancient chemist by the name of Dr. Daws, who dabbled somewhat in magic. There also lived in Boston a young lady by the name of Claribel Sudds, who was possessed of much money, little wit and an intense desire to go upon the stage. Question: Who was a wise and ancient chemist? Answer: Dr. Daws
Context: Full of surprise the woman jumped up and pulled the bar away from the door. 'No, no, you shan't do that,' cried the king, 'or if you do, it will be your own fault. Question: Where did the king tell the couple to go with him? Answer: his palace
Context: Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. And she returned into the room wherein Murtough slept, and lay down by his side. as she rose on high, her plumes quivered for a moment in the air; then down she swooped and picked him from the waves, carrying him to her eyrie on the dismal cliff outhanging o'er the ocean; and the griffin began to pierce him and to prod him with her talons, and to pick out pieces of his flesh with her beak; and this went on awhile, and then a flame, that came he knew not whence, rose from the nest, and he and the griffin were enveloped in the flame. Question: What did Murtough do after Sheen told him he was dreaming? Answer: slept again
Context: The young men laughed at him-him, Strong Desire-who feared to walk to the river at night-time. It was easily recognized, and the young men who had scoffed at Strong Desire shrunk into the corners out of sight. Question: Why did the young men believe Strong Desire was mad? Answer: They did not believe that Strong Desire could kill Red Head.
Context: In that country the people are fond of the roots of bulrushes, which they think as good as onions, and one of the young men said that they had better collect some of the roots and carry them back to the camp. Let them come and get the roots for themselves; but we will fish for eels and anything else we can get.' Question: What did a youth say? Answer: Men should not waste time in doing work that is only fit for women and children. Men should fish for eels and anything else they can get.
Context: One day the hunter had gone abroad with his bow and arrows, leaving, at the request of the strange boy, one of the two shafts which the friendly Weendigo had given to him, behind in the lodge. When he returned, what were his surprise and joy to see stretched dead by his lodge-door, the black giant who had slain his wife. Question: How did the hunter feel when he saw the the black giant who had slain his wife? Answer: surprised
Context: Then they set forth, but the news of their coming ran swifter still. In the place where they were wont to see cattle, and herds, and dwellings, they beheld neither house nor beast, nor man nor smoke. Question: What did Rhiannon do after Manawyddan proposed to her? Answer: consented
Context: Soon after they hunted on a wager to see who should come in first with game, and have the privilege of acting as entertainer to the others. He, however, followed him closely, and driving an arrow through and through him, he brought him to the ground. Question: What will happen if a brother wins the wager? Answer: He will have the privilege of acting as entertainer to the others.
Context: He traveled with a light heart, as he now expected to meet the one who was to give him directions how to proceed to get the Red Swan. The old man prepared him something to eat, acting as the other magicians had done, and his kettle was of the same size, and looked as if it were an own brother of the two others which had feasted him. Question: What did Maidwa notice was different about the kettle? Answer: It would make a passing remark, or sing a little tune for itself.
Context: The drummers beat their drums and the trumpeters blew their trumpets, and the other musicians practiced their art, each in his own way; so that the duke heard them long before they came in sight. "There are soldiers coming," said he, "and now you must provide me with soldiers and horsemen until I have twice as many as the folk on the other side of the forest. Question: How was the duke able to hear the soldiers long before they came in sight? Answer: The drummers beat their drums and the trumpeters blew their trumpets, and the other musicians practiced their art.
Context: They asked of her, "Who art thou, maiden, and wherefore art thou come to the house of mourning? And she said, "Murtough was dear to me, indeed, dearest of the men of the whole world; for I am Sheen, the daughter of Sige, the son of Dian, from whom Ath Sigi or the 'Ford of Sige' is called to-day. Question: Who was the lonely woman? Answer: Sheen, the daughter of Sige, the son of Dian, from whom Ath Sigi or the 'Ford of Sige'
Context: On one side, sitting among the cinders, with his face blackened, and crying aloud, was his elder brother. He seemed to be so lost and far-gone in grief that he could not notice his brother's arrival. Question: Why were the brothers upset? Answer: They could not find Maidwa.
Context: When Mr. McGregor returned about half an hour later, he observed several things which perplexed him. Also he could not understand how the cat could have managed to shut herself up INSIDE the green-house, locking the door upon the OUTSIDE. Question: Why did Peter's mother forgive him? Answer: because she was so glad to see that he had found his shoes and coat
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What will happen when the beast shakes herself? Answer: The bells will ring, and the woman's father will say Brown Allree is in the land.
Context: Then he blew himself up, and made himself so large and thick that he was quite horrible to look at. Gradually the North Wind grew weary, and became weaker and weaker. Question: What happened because the North Wind flew so low? Answer: The waves washed his ankles.
Context: He said, with great dignity, "Thou hast heard, good man, of Thomas of Ercildoune--Thomas the Rhymer, as men call him. If he had been brought there to parley with Thomas the Rhymer, then had he laid himself open to all the eldrich Powers of Darkness. And I have permitted thee thus to have thy desire and follow me hither in order that I may try of what stuff thou art made. He blew a blast upon it, which, however, was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall. Question: What will Canonbie Dick choose? Answer: the Horn
Context: Sylvia was glad to have leisure to think, for she could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself, and the time was drawing very near. By degrees I wearied of what had so delighted me at first, especially as I perceived more and more plainly that it is impossible to be constantly smart and amusing without being frequently ill-natured, and too apt to turn all things, even the most serious, into mere occasions for a brilliant jest.' Question: How did the Fairy feel after hearing Sylvia's report on Phyllida? Answer: pleased
Context: The two boys grew up larger and stronger than other children, and were very handsome as well. Question: How did the two boys grow up to be? Answer: larger and stronger than other children, and were very handsome as well
Context: All traces of the warrior had disappeared, and in the shining surface only a beautiful lady looked back at him. They were talking of the news which had recently been carried to them, that the King's son had entered their country with a large army determined to exterminate their band. Question: What news had the two chiefs heard? Answer: The King's son had entered their country with a large army determined to exterminate their band.
Context: And Death stretched out his long hand towards the fine little flower, but she held her hands fast around his, so tight, and yet afraid that she should touch one of the leaves. I am His gardener, I take all His flowers and trees, and plant them out in the great garden of Paradise, in the unknown land; but how they grow there, and how it is there I dare not tell thee." " Question: What does the mother say to threaten Death? Answer: I will tear all thy flowers off.
Context: "My son," said the old man, "hang that cage of birds which you have brought along in your hand at the door, and I will inform you why you and your wife have been sent for." "Pity was shown to you," resumed the King of the Star, "on account of the contempt of your wife's sister, who laughed at her ill fortune, and ridiculed you while you were under the power of that wicked spirit whom you overcame at the rock. Question: Why was pity shown to Osseo? Answer: Oweenee's sister laughed at Oweenee's ill fortune and ridiculed Osseo while he was under the power of that wicked spirit.
Context: Have you ever given yourself an account why you bloomed, and how your blooming comes about--why just in that way and in no other?" " The sun shone and warmed me, and the air refreshed me; I drank the clear dew and the invigorating rain. Question: Why does the rose tree bloom? Answer: because it can't do otherwise
Context: "O, yes, I know very well where the castle lies," said the North Wind. " For if we are to get there to-morrow, we must have the whole day before us." Question: How did the North Wind know where the castle lay? Answer: He blew an aspen leaf there just once.
Context: And now he met women who were carrying their basket-work, and painted paddles, and little boys, with their embellished war-clubs and bows and arrows, the gift of their friends. With this mighty throng, Bokwewa was borne along for two days and nights, when he arrived at a country so still and shining, and so beautiful in its woods and groves and plains, that he knew it was here that he should find the lost spirit-wife. Question: How did Bokwewa feel when he entered the country? Answer: a sense of home and the return of things familiar strong upon him
Context: Now once, at the time of the hay harvest, he was home at Baekkjen, and had lain down to take a little after-dinner nap under the penthouse. And he was taken into the hill, which happened in the following way: A man with a pair of gilded goat's horns came along and butted Ola, but Ola fell upon him so that the man had to duck back, again and again. Question: When was Ola home? Answer: the time of the hay harvest
Context: Then the tempest cleared away, and the blue sky appeared once more. Giauna had regained consciousness, and when she saw Kung lying dead beside her she said amid sobs: "He died for my sake! Question: How did Giauna feel when Kung died for her sake? Answer: sad
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: What happened because the cabin-boy did as much work as a seaman and was so full of fun? Answer: The captain did not like to lose him.
Context: A day or two before the time set to take his life, he wandered sadly along the shore of the lake. He looked at the glassy water, and more than once the thought to end his griefs by casting himself in its depths, came upon him with such sudden force that it was only by severe self-control that he was able to turn his steps in another direction. Question: What made Netawis stop himself from taking his own life? Answer: The village would say that he was guilty if he took his own life.
Context: They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in. 'I hope you have been attended to properly,' said he, 'and that you will enjoy your dinner. Question: Why did the king come to visit the couple in the small hall? Answer: He needed to tell them to not lift the lid.
Context: "Tin soldier," said the goblin, "don't wish for what does not belong to you." Now, whether it was the goblin who did it, or the draught, is not known, but the window flew open, and out fell the tin soldier, heels over head, from the third story, into the street beneath. Question: Why didn't the tin soldier call out for help? Answer: he was too proud
Context: Suddenly he heard a hideous cry from the stern of the boat, and felt certain that it was the drang, who was singing his death-song. Then he prayed God to guard his wife and children, for he thought his last hour had come. Question: How did Isaac feel to reach land? Answer: excited
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: What did the new faith do every day? Answer: spread wider and wider through the land
Context: When night came on she was let into the palace and lay down till the prince was in such a dead sleep that all she did couldn't awake him. The two evenings my wife gave me something to drink, but I don't know whether it was a sleepy posset or not.' ' Well, the great lady came soon after the prince, and found the stranger using her hand-reel and winding threads of gold off it, and the third bargain was made. Question: Why couldn't the prince wake up at night? Answer: The witch's daughter gave him sleepy posset.
Context: At this Oonagh set up a loud laugh of great contempt, by the way, and looked at him as if he were only a mere handful of a man. When Finn saw this he felt a certain description of moisture, which shall be nameless, oozing out through every pore of his skin; but Oonagh, depending upon her woman's wit, felt not a whit daunted. Question: Why did Far Rua never see Finn? Answer: Finn was always hiding.
Context: And never having learned to control herself, she allowed this wicked thought to grow into the awful desire of taking her step-daughter's life. said the wicked Princess Terute with a smile, "that I have brought you some sweet wine as a reward-and here are some nice cakes for my good children." Question: Why did Hase-Hime take the cup of wine? Answer: She didn't know it was poisoned.
Context: So she got the whistle, but when she reached the castle, the whistle disappeared all of a sudden. When Esben was herding his hares the third day, they sent the princess to him to get away his pipe from him. Question: What did the princess want for two hundred dollars? Answer: the whistle and to know what she had to do in order to fetch it safely home with her
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: Who lived in great comfort? Answer: a farmer
Context: The nurse said nothing, but as soon as the Queen had disappeared she went to the King and told him all. The King dared not speak to her, but he watched again the following night, and heard her say,      "My child my fawn this once I come to see,     This once I come, and now the end must be." Question: Who did the nurse tell about the Queen returning to the castle at night? Answer: the King
Context: His wife, the Princess Ototachibana, had accompanied him, and he bade her bring him the robe his aunt the priestess of Ise had given him, and to help him attire himself as a woman. Ototachibana then brought him her comb, which he put in his black tresses, and then adorned himself with strings of strange jewels. Question: Who was Princess Ototachibana? Answer: Yamato's wife
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: I hear horses' hoofs behind us,' said Hyacinthia to the Prince. Then no time must be lost,' said Hyacinthia, and she immediately turned herself into a river, Prince Milan into an iron bridge, and the charger into a blackbird. In fear and trembling they returned to tell the Magician what had happened. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: What did Hyacinthia and the Prince hear whenever they were pursued? Answer: horses' hoofs
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. But secretly she was alarmed, and formed plans to detain him at home altogether. After this he set out again, travelling quickly, lest he should be met by any of his father's people. At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. Question: What will happen when Setanta arrives at Emania? Answer: Setanta will look for Fergus Mac Roy.
Context: So that evening the Fox was absent, and the Wolf was alone in the cave. And if the Wolf could have seen him in the darkness he would have noticed that he was laughing to himself. Question: Why did the Fox look fat and sleek, and well pleased with himself? Answer: He ate the butter.
Context: And he went to sleep, and there was heavy sleep on him, and Morraha went in and took hold of the sword that was on the bed at his head. "Well," said the man, "let us sit down together till I tell the story. I would be laughing, and my wife would be asking me what was the reason of my laughing. Question: What did the man's mother teach the man when he was growing up? Answer: the language of the birds
Context: She sang of herself and of her family, of the arrival of the potato in Europe, of the misrepresentation to which she had been exposed before she was acknowledged, as she is now, to be a greater treasure than a lump of gold. Question: What did the potato sing? Answer: herself and her family and arrival of the potato in Europe an the misrepresentation to which she had been exposed beore she was acknowledged
Context: "Good-day, Pig Snig," said the pancake, and began to roll as fast as ever it could. You need not hurry so, for we can keep each other company going through the forest and take our time, for it is said to be haunted." Question: Where did the pig and the pancake come to after a while? Answer: a brook
Context: They were real wampum, white and blue, shining and beautiful; and the young man, placing them in his bosom, set off; but as he did not seem quite steady in his belief of the strange woman's story, the dog Spirit-Iron, taking his arm, kept close by his side, and gave him many words of encouragement as they went along. He seemed to be so very ill that the Toad-Woman at length asked what she could do for him. Question: According to the Toad-Woman, why did the young man look different from the rest of the children? Answer: It was a very bright, clear blue sky when he was born.
Context: Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Indeed, they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro. Question: Who was Shiro? Answer: Their pet dog.
Context: Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank. When Kotei found his march checked he was wild with disappointment, for he had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him. Question: How did Kotei feel when he was unable to capture Shiyu? Answer: disappointment
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. Question: What will happen if the Prince does not fulfill the task? Answer: He shall lose his head.
Context: When he was finished, he put down his paw and, turning to the Fox, looked at him keenly; for all at once it struck him that his fur looked sleek and fine. The Fox's face fell at these words, for although he was both untruthful and dishonest now, he had been well brought up in his youth, and he knew that it was a terrible thing to perjure oneself and swear falsely. Question: What did the Wolf notice after looking at the Fox keenly? Answer: His fur looked sleek and fine.
Context: 'That's a lie,' said Walter, 'I am not at all frightened, but it is more amusing when there are two. Come with me, Jonas, and you shall have the skin, and I will be content with the ears and the tail.' Question: Who did Jonas want Walter to go with while he hunted wolves? Answer: the miller's little Lisa
Context: Now, there are among us human creatures certain individuals who are known as "emancipated women," as, for instance, principals of institutions, dancers who stand professionally on one leg, milliners, and sick-nurses; and with this class of emancipated women the two Maidens in the shed associated themselves. They were "maidens" among the paver folk, and determined not to give up this honorable appellation, and let themselves be miscalled "rammers." Question: who, other than the maidens, are emancipated women? Answer: nurses
Context: The King sent off for his physician in ordinary, who washed Jack all over with various essences and salves, so that he became white and was a remarkably handsome young man. After some years Jack and his wife went to visit his father, but the farmer did not recognize him, and declared he had no son; he had had one, but that one was born with bristles like a hedgehog, and had gone off into the wide world. Question: What happened after Jack my Hedgehog told his story to his father? Answer: His old father rejoiced and returned to live with him in his kingdom.
Context: One day the two brothers began to look dark upon Maidwa, and to reproach him for having taken from the medicine-sack their deceased father's magic arrows; they upbraided him especially that one was lost. They asked him what he came for, how he had descended, and why he was so bold as to visit the abode of the dead. Question: How will Maidwa feel when his brothers reproach him for losing a magic arrow? Answer: guilty
Context: Fourteen long years went by, and people were beginning to forget that Thomas the Rhymer had ever been in Fairy-land; but at last a day came when Scotland was at war with England, and the Scottish army was resting by the banks of the Tweed, not far from the Tower of Ercildoune. And the Master of the Tower determined to make a feast, and invite all the Nobles and Barons who were leading the army to sup with him. Question: What happened after fourteen long years went by? Answer: Scotland was at war with England.
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: Who was the woman the daughter of? Answer: a wicked magician
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: How did Moti feel after he found that his bag of money was stolen? Answer: horrified
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. I shall be forever happy in my new state, for I have been obedient to my parent. Question: How will Iadilla make his father suffer? Answer: Iadilla will leave his father.
Context: Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat, making clothes for her children. However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, as they would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king's. Question: What did the husband suggest because he could not buy the unfinished houses? Answer: buy houses in some other part of the town
Context: As he stood musing on this fairy spectacle, a strange noise came to his ear from a distance. Floating at a distance upon its waters sat a most beautiful Red Swan, whose plumage glittered in the sun, and when it lifted up its neck, it uttered the peculiar tone he had heard. Question: What did Maidwa see at a distance? Answer: a most beautiful Red Swan
Context: Then he paused, balanced himself upon his left foot, and kicked his right leg into the air in the way favored by ballet-dancers! He whirled around upon the tips of his toes, kicked right and left in a graceful manner, and startled a bald-headed man in the front row by casting a languishing glance in his direction. Question: Why did Clarbiel accused the senator of stealing her bonbons? Answer: He began dancing like ballet-dancers.
Context: Then straightway he sought the town for the best leather, and for a goldsmith to fashion the clasps. He himself watched till it was done, so that he might learn for himself. Question: What was Manawyddan known as? Answer: The Maker of Gold Shoes
Context: Don't you remember, prince, that I was your wedded wife for four years?' ' The prince and princess went with the rest, and by the time all were safe on the lawn, down came the building, and made the ground tremble for miles round. Question: How did the prince feel after he regained his memory? Answer: happy
Context: When mass had been said, the schoolmaster was invited to the parsonage. When he had drunk his coffee, the wife and daughter drew him aside into another room, and the wife complained that her husband had grown so old and decrepit that he could not keep up much longer. Question: Why did the schoolmaster go to the parsonage? Answer: They assured him he would not lose; but rather gain thereby.
Context: He thought that he had done all that was required of him, and that his life was safe. However, he bowed low, and went out to consult his friend the horse. He did not much believe in the horse's plan; but he could not think of anything better, so he called to the ants, and bade them collect the bran as fast as they could. Well pleased with all he had done, Jose returned to the palace; but when the king took the precious objects to Bella-Flor, she declared that she would never open her door till the bandit who had carried her off had been fried in oil. Question: How did Jose get Princess Bela-Flor's three items back? Answer: following the horse's advice
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: What happened after the Weendigo finished his meal? Answer: The Weendigo stretched himself down and fell asleep.
Context: There was also in the house a ram with a white belly, a jet-black head, dark-green horns, and green feet; and there was in the end of the house a hag covered with a dark ash-coloured garment. The man at the door-post welcomed us; and we five, having our five hounds with us, sat on the floor of the bruighean. ' I could be but with difficulty recognised; and the lamentation of Caoilte on account of my being in that condition was greater than that he had before given vent to on account of my thirst. Question: What did Caolite do after he perceived Fionn to be thirsty? Answer: began to complain bitterly on that account
Context: Then Letiko went straight home, and said to her mother: 'While I was gathering herbs a fine tall gentleman came to me and charged me to tell you that you should remember what you promised him.' When the woman heard that she was sore afraid, and immediately shut all the doors and windows of the house, stopped up all the chinks and holes, and kept Letiko hidden away, that the Sunball should not come and take her away. Question: How did Sunball carry Letiko away? Answer: He sent a ray through the keyhole.
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: Where did the dog follow the scent of blood to? Answer: a door of the room in which the child was
Context: The gardener left the hamper by the garden gate, so that the carrier could pick it up when he passed. He awoke in a fright, while the hamper was being lifted into the carrier's cart. Question: How did Timmy Willie end up in the town? Answer: Timmy Willie fell asleep in the hamper.
Context: One spring day Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: 'I certainly think that there will not be more than two,' said Jonas, 'there are never more than two when they slay children and rams. 'But, you see, Jonas,' said Walter, 'if there are two, it might still happen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg. Question: Why didn't Jonas want to hunt wolves with Walter? Answer: He believed Walter could hunt the wolves by himself.
Context: Her own daughter, who was as ugly as sin, and had only one eye, complained to her, and said,  "I never had the chance of being a Queen." After a while the Queen brought a beautiful baby-boy into the world, and that day the King was out hunting. Question: Where did the stepmother lead the queen? Answer: into the bathroom
Context: "Well, since I do happen to be here, I will at least make the attempt," said the prince. " And I want to try to deliver my brothers, who stand outside, turned to stone, and I would like to save you as well." " Aha," thought the prince under the bed, "that is where we will find it!" Question: Why did the princess ask the giant where his heart was? Answer: the prince laid under the bed
Context: And the grave of Murtough was made wide and deep, and there they laid the Queen beside him, two in the one grave, near the north side of the little church that is in Tuilen. Now, when the burial was finished, and the clerics were reciting over his grave the deeds of the King, and were making prayers for Murtough's soul that it might be brought out of hell, for Cairnech showed great care for this, they saw coming towards them across the sward a lonely woman, star-bright and beautiful, and a kirtle of priceless silk upon her, and a green mantle with its fringes of silver thread flowing to the ground. Question: Where were the king and queen laid? Answer: near the north side of the little church that is in Tuilen
Context: In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and he held his court in the palace of Emain Macha. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called the children of a king. Question: Why did Ness become unkind and trecherous? Answer: an unkindness had been done to her
Context: But Earl St. Clair forgot that he carried a Talisman which his companion lacked, that enabled him to see things as they really were, while the other's eyes were holden, and he was startled and amazed when Earl Gregory said sharply, "Thy mind hath gone mad over this Elfin King. And because I love a gallant horseman, and would fain learn his name and degree, I will follow him till I find him, even if it be at the world's end." Question: What did Earl Gregory see on the ground? Answer: an enormous Ring
Context: Stopping a moment to think what she would do, she remembered an old charm-verse. Now she began to clap her hands to keep time to the rolling of the peach down stream, and while she clapped she sang this song:    "Distant water is bitter,    The near water is sweet;    Pass by the distant water    And come into the sweet." Question: What did the woman do as she sang? Answer: clapped her hands
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: Why did the man have to hide himself all day? Answer: The bellman said everyone who killed a raven would get a fourpenny bit.
Context: On arriving at the lodge of the hunter with whom they were to feast, they found the banquet ready, and as soon as their entertainer had finished his harangue--in which he told them his feasting was in honor of the Evening or Woman's Star--they began to partake of the portion dealt out, according to age and character, to each one of the guests. The food was very delicious, and they were all happy but Osseo, who looked at his wife, and then gazed upward, as if he was looking into the substance of the sky. Question: Where did Osseo and Oweenee find the banquet ready? Answer: at the lodge of the hunter
Context: Just as she said that she felt a large glass of milk between her fingers, and at the same time Aina cried out, 'Lisa! Scarcely had she spoken before she felt a nice soft bed by her side, and there beside Lisa was one too. Question: Why did the girls eat and drink with a good appetite? Answer: The girls were very hungry.
Context: HUNCA MUNCA tried every tin spoon in turn; the fish was glued to the dish. THEN there was no end to the rage and disappointment of Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca. Question: What happened when Tom Thumb hit the ham with the tongs and the shovel? Answer: the ham flew all into pieces
Context: But I can give you some good advice as to how you can see him. The daughter took the candle-end and hid it in her wimple, and in the evening the white bear came to fetch her. Question: What did the mother give the daughter? Answer: a candle-end
Context: Then she went away, and told the old King that the thing inside the iron stove would not have her, but wanted the Princess. As soon as the day broke the voice from the stove called out, 'It seems to be daylight outside.' Question: What did the iron stove do when he realized that the girl was the swineherd's daughter? Answer: told her to go away at once, and let the King's daughter come
Context: So they released the wine-dealer from his block of ice, and laid him in consecrated ground. But when the youth had paid for the wake, he had but a few shillings left in his pocket. Question: What happened after the youth had paid for the wake? Answer: He had but a few shillings left in his pocket.
Context: And the man told them about Humpty Dumpty who fell downstairs and married a princess. thought the tree, and was sure it must be true, because such a nice man had told the story. ' Question: How did the fir-tree feel when it heard the two stories? Answer: astonished
Context: "You must think it strange that I want to go away," said Momotaro, "because I have not yet told you my reason. I must go and conquer them and bring back all the plunder of which they have robbed this land. Question: What happened because Momotaro wanted to conquer the devils? Answer: He must go away for a short time.
Context: And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should be well cared for. "Oh, on my honour, it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island; and I will keep him, as he is trained. The Queen was now carrying the twelfth child, and when she was lying-in, the King took me with him to watch the baby. Question: Why did the king want to keep the wolf? Answer: The wolf was trained. Perhaps he would serve the king yet.
Context: The Daimio was so transported with joy that he looked as if he would go mad. He himself gave the old man a wine cup filled with the best SAKE, and rewarded him with much silver and gold and many other precious things. Question: How did the Daimio feel when the tree was revived? Answer: joy
Context: "I will fly to them, these royal birds, and they will peck me to death because I, who am so ugly, dare to approach them; but it doesn't matter; it's better to be killed by them than to be snapped at by the ducks and pecked at by hens and kicked by the servant who looks after the poultry-yard, and suffer all the winter." Yes, kill me," the poor creature said, bowing his head down to the water, and waited for death. Question: What happened after the duck flew out into the open water and swam towards the stately swan? Answer: He beheld his own image, but it was no longer that of a clumsy dark grey bird, ugly and repulsive. He was a swan himself.
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: Why did the Abbot see no friendly faces? Answer: every face was strange
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: What did the stranger do after the seal catcher said he could not complete the order? Answer: took him to a place where there were any number of seals
Context: WHILE he was gone, Mrs. Flopsy Bunny (who had remained at home) came across the field. Benjamin and Flopsy were in despair, they could not undo the string. Question: Why was Mrs. Tittlemouse resourceful? Answer: She helped to nibble a hole in the sack for Benjamin and Flopsy to escape.
Context: 'Is that all, and is this how you leave me, you brute, you,' says I. 'You ugly unnatural baste, and is this the way you serve me at last? So I told him how I was a little overtaken in liquor at the master's, and how I was cast on a dissolute island, and how I lost my way in the bog, and the thief of an eagle promised to fly me out of it, and how, instead of that, he had fled me up to the moon. Question: What did the eagle do when Daniel cursed at him? Answer: spreaded out his great big wings, burst out a laughing, and flew away like lightning
Context: In Dschen-Giang there once lived a widow named Dsiang, who had a son called Aduan. But one day he fell into the water below the Gold Island and was drowned. Question: How did Dsiang feel when her son fell into the water below the Gold Island? Answer: sad
Context: Thereupon he drew the scholar Liu through a high gateway, ornamented
with bosses and a ring in a lion's mouth, as is the custom in the
dwellings of those of high estate. And when he entered the hall, an old lady with white hair and bent
back, leaning on a cane, came forward and asked: "What man is this?" Question: How did the old lady feel when the master returned? Answer: happy
Context: So he made one excuse after another, but the Wolf, who was getting more and more suspicious every moment, would not listen to him. So, as he had not courage to tell the truth, he was forced at last to swear an oath also, and this was what he swore:      "If it be that I stole the butter; if it be, if it be--     Then let some most deadly punishment fall on me, fall on me--     Whirrum wheeckam, whirrum wheeckam,     Whirram whee, whirram whee!" Question: What did the Fox do when he did not want to swear an oath? Answer: made one excuse after another
Context: So the men of Ulster set out for Emain, Finchoem having the child with her. It is for Conchubar," he said, "to help the child to a good name, for he is next of kin to him. Question: Who did the child become known as? Answer: Setana, son of Sualtim
Context: Thus was the wicked woman punished in losing her own child when she had tried to do away with her step-daughter. Instead of blaming herself, she began to hate Hase-Hime more than ever in the bitterness and wretchedness of her own heart. Question: What happened because Princess Terute lost her child? Answer: She began to hate Hase-Hime more than ever.
Context: But within was neither man nor beast; neither boar nor dogs, but only a fountain with marble round it, and on the edge a golden bowl, richly wrought, which pleased Pryderi greatly. There, in the centre of the courtyard, she beheld Pryderi standing, and hastened towards him. Question: What happened after Pryderi took hold of the golden bowl? Answer: His hands stuck to the bowl, and his feet to the marble slab, and despair took possession of him.
Context: Oh, he is a naughty boy, that Cupid; you must never have anything to do with him. But that is a long time ago, and it is all past now; however, a thing of that sort she never forgets. Question: What did cupid do to your old grandmother? Answer: shot an arrow at her
Context: The Dragon King did as he was bid, and the warrior noticed that he had only three arrows left in his quiver. When the Dragon King saw that even this brave warrior's arrows were powerless to kill the centipede, he lost heart and began to tremble with fear. Question: How will the last arrow affect the centipede differently from the first two? Answer: It will hurt the centipede.
Context: In a beautiful island that lies in the southern seas, where chains of gay orchids bind the trees together. One morning, however, as she was staggering along with her bundle on her back, she thought that the river which flowed past their hut looked so cool and inviting. Question: Why did the youngest sister have the hardest task of all? Answer: She had to cut and bring home the wood which was to keep the fire continually burning.
Context: 'Dan,' says he, after a minute's thought, 'though it is very improper of you to get drunk on a Lady-day, yet, as you are a decent sober man, who tends mass well, and never fling stones at me or mine, nor cries out after one in the field, my life for yours,' says he; 'so get up on my back, and grip me well for fear you'd fall off, and I'll fly you out of the bog.' ' Upon the honour of a gentleman,' says he, putting his right foot on his breast, 'I am quite in earnest; and so now either take my offer or starve in the bog--besides I see that your weight is sinking the stone.' Question: What did the eagle tell Daniel to do to get off the island? Answer: get up on the eagle's back and grip him well
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: How did the Magician feel when he realized he was tricked? Answer: rage
Context: Hans took the bacon, and tied a string round it, and dragged it after him on his way home, and the dogs came and ate it up, so that when he got home he had the string in his hand, and nothing at the other end of it. "I tied a piece of string to it, and led it home, but the dogs ate it, mother." Question: Why did Hans return home with only a string in his hand? Answer: because a dog ate the bacon
Context: Listen how their jaws are wagging; and for all that they can't clap properly. Now, we can speak our language over the whole earth--up in the North and in Egypt. Question: Why does the Stork believe that they are better than men? Answer: Storks can speak language over the entire earth and can fly while men rush along the railways.
Context: "There is one point," they added, "of which we wish to speak. For another to usurp what belongs to her, we know to be the severest test of her goodness of heart, and consequently of your temper and feelings. Question: What did the guests say was the point of trial? Answer: the guests possessing themselves of the choicest parts of the hunter's hunt
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. So accordingly he pulled up a fir-tree, and after lopping off the roots and branches, made a walking-stick of it and set out on his way to Oonagh. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. And the long and the short of it was that he heard Far Rua was coming to the Causeway to have a trial of strength with him. Question: Why did Far Rua swear he would never rest? Answer: He wanted to give Finn a considerable beating.
Context: With the utmost politeness he introduced Timmy Willie to nine other mice, all with long tails and white neckties. Johnny Town-mouse and his friends noticed it; but they were too well bred to make personal remarks; only one of them asked Timmy Willie if he had ever been in a trap? Question: What did the mice look like? Answer: long tails and white neckties
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. But the queen laughed at her grief, and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished. Question: Why did the queen show her true nature? Answer: She no longer had to pretend because the king was gone.
Context: She then set the lodge in perfect order, and, taking her bundle, she set off in search of habitations. They were blighted by the frost or hidden out of reach by the snow, for the mid-winter had come on, and poor little Sheem was obliged to leave the lodge and wander away in search of food. Question: Why did the roots and berries give out? Answer: were blighted by the frost
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What did Morraha have to do if the son of a king or queen was there? Answer: bring him to his wife on his shoulders
Context: "Now you have delivered me," said he, "for the old woman, with whom you and your master have been dealing, is a witch, and she turned me into a lizard, and my brother and sister into a dog and cat." She was actually on the way to throw us into the sea and drown us; but if any one were to appear and want to buy us, she had to sell us for four shillings apiece, that had been agreed upon. Question: What did the old woman do to the prince's brother and sister? Answer: turned them into a dog and cat
Context: In the meantime the Master Girl sat by the seashore, and waited and waited; but no king's son came. But the whole hut was as dark and dirty as a pig-sty; therefore the Master Girl said she would clean up a bit, so that things would look as they did in other, decent people's houses. Question: What did the old woman do when the gold flamed up? Answer: ran out as though the evil one were after her
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: What will the Fairy expect from Sylvia in two months? Answer: tell the Fairy what Sylvia thought of Iris
Context: "Only listen," said the young storks, "to what the boys are singing. But the boys went on singing, and pointed mockingly at the sentinel stork. Question: why did the little ones draw their beaks into the nest? Answer: they were afraid
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: What did the ravens do after Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup? Answer: rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: What happened whenever Murtough made any sign to go to Cairnech? Answer: Sheen threw her spell upon the King, so that he could not break away.
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: How did Earl St. Clair feel after he saw the frozen Elves and Goblins? Answer: surprised
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. But the queen laughed at her grief, and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished. Question: What did the prince get turned into? Answer: a werewolf
Context: Chippy Hackee was not too fat, but he did not want to come; he stayed down below and chuckled. And now Timmy and Goody Tiptoes keep their nut-store fastened up with a little padlock. Question: Where do Timmy and Goody Tiptoes keep their nuts? Answer: They fastened them up with a little padlock.
Context: 'Well, at any rate, I shall soon be there,' she thought, and shaking the reins, tried to urge the horse to a gallop. But it was of no use; he declined to move out of a walk; and she was forced to hear all the jokes that were made upon her. Question: What happened when Barbaik tried to urge the hose to gallop? Answer: He declined to move out of a walk and she was forced to hear all the jokes that were made upon her.
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: Why did the hare want the crocodile to line up all the crocodiles? Answer: so he can get to Inaba
Context: After they had walked a while, they came to a little hut, lying deep in the dark forest. By then the king's daughter was very thirsty, and wanted to go into the little hut with her step-sister, in order to get a drink of water. Question: Where did girls come to after having walked a while? Answer: a little hut
Context: The man set out as early as possible, and had not as yet reached town before he met the old woman with the basket. " I do not fare so badly this way," thought the man, "but when he sets out for himself, then the matter will probably turn out differently." Question: How did the man feel about the kitten? Answer: letdown
Context: After a short time, the woman heard the cry of the dog, and running home as fast as she could, she found her child gone, and the dog too. The mother hurried off at full speed in pursuit, and as she flew along, she came, from time to time, to lodges inhabited by old women, who told her at what time the child-thief had passed; they also gave her shoes that she might follow on. Question: What did the mother have to do when she arrived at the next lodge? Answer: set the toes of the moccasins they had given her pointing homeward
Context: And next evening they came with four others, who wanted to hear the tree's story, and it told still more, for it remembered everything so clearly and thought: 'Those were happy times! And then it thought of a pretty little birch-tree that grew out in the wood, and seemed to the fir-tree a real princess, and a very beautiful one too. Question: Who came to listen to the fir-tree's stories? Answer: the little mice
Context: Long, long ago, far, far away on the other side of the world, some young men left the camp where they lived to get some food for their wives and children. The sun was hot, but they liked heat, and as they went they ran races and tried who could hurl his spear the farthest, or was cleverest in throwing a strange weapon called a boomerang, which always returns to the thrower. Question: Why did some young men left the camp where they lived? Answer: to get some food for their wives and children
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: How did Prince Milan feel when he saw the thirtieth duck? Answer: pity
Context: The sister now began to believe that her brother was an extraordinary boy. They sat, one evening, in the lodge, musing with each other in the dark, by the light of each other's eyes--for they had no other of any kind--when the sister said, "My brother, it is strange that you, who can do so much, are no wiser than the Ko-ko, who gets all his light from the moon; which shines or not, as it pleases." Give me your light, as you fly o'er my head,     That I may merrily go to my bed. Question: What became the light of the brother and sister? Answer: the fire-fly
Context: "O, I am the big crooked one of Etnedal," said the monster troll. But Per Gynt knew better, for had he shot another time, the bullet would have rebounded and hit him. Question: What did Per Gynt and his dogs do after taking hold of the great troll? Answer: dragged him out of the hut
Context: There was but little light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and its fitful flashes, by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness, served rather to increase than to dispel her fears. cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge; "there are two corpses clothed with garments!" Question: What did the husband throw down? Answer: the carcass of a large fat deer
Context: For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her. When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest. Question: Why was the king's son in the forest? Answer: to shoot birds
Context: The tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company. They filled their pipes--and huge pipes they were--and such clouds they blew, that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night, in all the country round about, several hours before its time. Question: What happened after Wassamo delivered all of his messages and passed a happy time? Answer: Wassamo said, "I must now bid you all farewell forever."
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: How did Far Rua feel finding the powerful grinders in the child? Answer: surprised
Context: Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, but visited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest he should be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and shepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport. Question: How did the bride feel after she forgot to buy her cotton? Answer: upset
Context: Two holes were left for the eyes, and Ivan carefully shaped out the mouth. And the loose snow fell away from Snowflake as an egg shell does from an egg, and it was a little girl whom Marie held in her arms. Question: Where did Ivan and Marie take Snowflake? Answer: the cottage
Context: An old man had an only son, named Iadilla, who had come to that age which is thought to be most proper to make the long and final fast which is to secure through life a guardian genius or spirit. To accomplish his wish, he thought it necessary that the young Iadilla should fast a much longer time than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom, whose fame he coveted. Question: What happened to Iadilla after he visited the sweating-lodge and bath? Answer: He was ordered to lie down upon a clean mat in a little lodge expressly provided for him.
Context: He kissed her for the last time, and was off the next minute, walking as fast as he could. Her life was almost leaving her, when, just as the sun was setting, he turned up a lane, and went into a little house. Question: How did the youngest princess feel after she was reunited with her eldest child? Answer: happy
Context: When he got back, he showed the arm to his comrades, who one and all called him the hero of their band and gave him a great feast. He felt sure that one day or other, as soon as the ogre got over his scare, he would come to try to get his arm back again. Question: Why did Wantanabe not allow the box out of his sight? Answer: He did not want to ogre to get his arm back.
Context: The next morning he got up with the sun, and said to the old man and to the old woman and to his wife:  'Farewell: my foot shall not return to the house till I have found other three people as silly as you.' He walked away till he came to the town, and seeing the door of a cottage standing open wide. Question: Why did the young man leave his home? Answer: He wanted to find people as silly as his family.
Context: "If you'll give me your youngest daughter, I will make you just as rich as now you are poor," said the bear. Question: What did the bear offer in return for the man's daughter? Answer: make him just as rich as now he was poor
Context: Owasso himself reached home in safety, proof against all kinds of weather, and the magic canoe became the exclusive property of the young man and his wife. She could not converse with the birds and beasts about her, and she felt, to the bottom of her heart, that she was alone. Question: Why did Owasso's sister almost wish her younger brother was dead? Answer: He kept her from weeking the companionship of others.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant boy, who dreamed that he would get a princess, from far, far away, that she was as white as milk, and as red as blood, and so rich that her riches had no end. This surprised the youth, and when the pastor came out of the church, he asked him what it meant. " Question: What did the people do because the man was a great evil-doer? Answer: split at it
Context: From all sides bright-colored clouds came floating in, and the courtyard was filled with a purple ether. If I can help you, I will be glad to place myself at your disposal." Question: What did Dschou Bau do when the mistress came to visit him? Answer: had wine and food brought and entertained the mistress and her servants all in the most splendid way
Context: "I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," says he, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges from the body. "Oh," said the head, "if I were to get going on the body again, and the men of the world wouldn't get me off it again." Question: How did the third giant feel after his brothers died? Answer: mad
Context: But when the troll noticed he was getting the worst of it, he grew frightened, quickly ran to a high tree, and clambered into it. Silverwhite and the dogs ran after him, the dogs barking as loudly as they could. The king bade his dogs be still, but in vain, they only barked the more loudly. Then the troll tore three hairs from his head, handed them to Silverwhite and said: "Lay a hair on each of the dogs, and then they will be as quiet as can be." But they had exchanged no more than a few blows, before Silverwhite received a mortal wound, and lay on the earth in a pool of blood. Question: What will the troll try to do to Lillwacker? Answer: try to trick Lillwacker
Context: We talked it over in all manner of ways, yet could not agree on the subject. It made me think of the old stories when the gods, in their immortal youth, wandered upon this earth, and paid visits to mankind. Question: why does the Polytechnic lecturer remind the old man of a god? Answer: because light beamed from his eyes
Context: WHEN this happened, the Flopsy Bunnies went across the field to a rubbish heap, in the ditch outside Mr. McGregor's garden. One day--oh joy!--there were a quantity of overgrown lettuces, which had "shot" into flower. Question: What were shot into flower? Answer: a quantity of overgrown lettuces
Context: they all cried together, and wanted to catch up with it and grab it on the run; but the pancake rolled and rolled, and sure enough, it got so far ahead of them that they could no longer see it, for it had nimbler legs than all of them. "Dear, good pancake, don't roll so fast; but wait a little and let me eat you!" Question: Why was the pancake able to get away from the woman and children? Answer: It had nimbler legs than all of them.
Context: The last was a very difficult thing to do--more than a wise woman ought to ask. He received the spectacles and the ear-trumpet, and was posted in the middle of the potato-field. Question: What came from within the great potato? Answer: sounds
Context: And he told the king's son he was to fetch his horse from the pasture, and when he had done this, he might rest: "For you have come to a kind master," said he. " Yet it is not an easy matter to ride this horse home," said the Master Girl, "but I will tell you how to set about it. Then he stood still, as gentle as a young lamb, and he had no trouble bringing him to the stable. Question: Why did the king's son think fetching the horse would be easy? Answer: He had ridden swift horses before.
Context: No more had they cast overboard their chips and litter than Sir Urian came along in a squall, and grabbed the master mariner by the collar. " He worked and sweat, and the perspiration ran down his cheeks in such streams that one might have run a mill with them, but he merely kept on pumping out of the North Sea into the North Sea. Question: Why did the devil return home? Answer: He could pump no longer.
Context: All the silverware was still on the table, but all the tasty dishes had turned to moss and toadstools, and frogs and toads and the like. You have been sitting here yourself, and talking about our wedding the whole afternoon!" Question: How did the groom know it must have been someone else who had taken his shape? Answer: He had just come.
Context: And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door was open, and from within there was heard a low, pleasant frizzling, like that which is heard when one whisks yellow batter with a wooden ladle into a hot frying-pan. When His angel is your guide,                Little Lasse, Lasse,           Then no harm can e'er betide,           Even on the other side                Where the wild beasts wander. Question: What happened after Little Lasse could not move? Answer: All the little dreams came about him, thousands and thousands of little children, and they made a ring around him and sang a little song.
Context: Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good to eat; and, as for seasons, he asked for whatever fruit he wanted whenever he wanted it, and saw that he got it; so to him Moti's guess was like a miracle, and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence, for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box. Of course when the king marvelled and praised Moti's wisdom, everybody else did so too; and, whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen, Moti took the horse and entered the king's service. Question: Where did Moti go to find his horse? Answer: the neighbouring forest
Context: He returned, and inquired whether his grandfather had put up the poles and made the fire. Another day the young man went out to see what there was, within a day's hunt, that was curious; and on entering the woods he heard a voice calling out to him, "Come here, you destined wearer of the White Feather. Question: Why will the enemy not see the vine? Answer: The vine is enchanted.
Context: "True," thought Wunzh, "the Great Spirit made all things, and it is to him that we owe our lives. The beautiful stranger was richly and gayly dressed, having on a great many garments of green and yellow colors, but differing in their deeper or lighter shades. He sees that it is from a kind and benevolent wish to do good to your people, and to procure a benefit for them. Question: How did Wunzh feel on the third day? Answer: weak
Context: Then the whole company of crocodiles arranged themselves in the water so as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of Inaba. So the hare hopped off the island on to the strange bridge of crocodiles, counting as he jumped from one crocodile's back to the other:  "Please keep quite still, or I shall not be able to count. Question: What did the hare need to do to count the crocodiles? Answer: walk over the crocodiles' backs
Context: "That I cannot do" returned the other, "because she has a bit of bread in the form of a cross in her pocket." The woman, who had been unable to catch up with her neighbor, reached the church at Hanger alone. Question: Why could the witch troll not tear the woman's head from her shoulders? Answer: She had a bit of bread in the form of a cross in her pocket.
Context: One summer, a long, long time ago, the folk of Melbustad went up to the hill pastures with their herd. So the maiden remained alone in the hills with no other company than a dog. Question: What did the bridesmaids bring? Answer: the bridal crown, and the ornaments, and a handsome bridal gown
Context: Bokwewa tried to dissuade him from it; but he would not be turned aside from his purpose. It is a long distance to the present abiding-place of your wife, and there are so many charms and temptations by the way that I fear you will be led astray and forget your errand. For the people whom you will see in the country through which you have to pass, do nothing but amuse themselves. Question: What did Bokwewa say Kwasynd must be on his guard against? Answer: a large grape-vine
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. " Maidwa, that he might meet his brothers, rescued two of the magic arrows from the water; and although the third was borne off, he had a hope yet to recover that too, and to be master of the swan. He passed on, and when he emerged from the forest, the sun was just falling below the edge of the sky. Question: Why did Maidwa believe he could hunt the Red Swan? Answer: He had magic arrows.
Context: "For although your brothers," he said, "were here, they were too bashful to enter any of our lodges. whereupon the old chief, being now vexed past patience, took his great war-club and tapped this clownish fellow upon the head, which so far subdued him that he sat for some time quite still; when, after a while, he came to himself, the chief upbraided him for his folly, and told him to go out and tell stories to the old women. Question: What happened after Maidwa gave the old chief presents? Answer: The pretender jumped up in a passion.
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: What will the servants do to avoid being punished by the Magician? Answer: look for Hyacinthia and the Prince
Context: "Very well," said the leader of the buffalos, whose form was nothing but bone. " Maidwa turned away, for it was very dark, and it pained his eyes to look upon it; and, moving away by the aid of his guardian spirits, he again stood upon the earth, and beheld the sun giving light as usual. Question: What will happen when Maidwa returns to his tribe? Answer: Maidwa will find the magic arrow at the lodge-door.
Context: But the Wheelbarrow was of a different opinion; and the Wheelbarrow was looked upon as of some consequence, for he considered himself a quarter of a coach, because he went about upon one wheel. "I must submit to your notice," he said, "that the name 'maiden' is common enough, and not nearly so refined as 'hand-rammer,' or 'stamper,' which latter has also been proposed, and through which you would be introduced into the category of seals; and only think of the great stamp of state, which impresses the royal seal that gives effect to the laws! Question: Why doesn't the maiden want to surrender her maiden name? Answer: she is too old for that
Context: It was certainly tiresome sometimes climbing over the fallen trees, and getting caught in the branches, and waging war with the juniper bushes and the midges, but what did that matter? The wood had been on fire once, and now raspberry bushes had grown up, and there were raspberry bushes and raspberry bushes as far as the eye could see. Question: Why did Lisa and Aina wander on and on? Answer: There were plenty of bilberries and elder berries, but no raspberries.
Context: "This is evidently a deputation," said the Rocket; "I will receive them with becoming dignity" so he put his nose in the air, and began to frown severely as if he were thinking about some very important subject. Bad and Grand sound very much the same, indeed they often are the same"; and he fell into the mud. Question: What did the workmen do when they saw the Rocket the next day? Answer: threw him over the wall
Context: He did not dare return, since he feared he might be questioned about his festival garments, and severely punished because he had ruined them. And then, without being wet, he found himself suddenly swimming on the surface of the river. Question: What will happen when Aduan jumps from the tall tree? Answer: travel home
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: Who did his wife say Morraha was under? Answer: the son of a king under spells
Context: Oh, this one egg takes a dreadful long time," said the sitting Duck; "it won't break. They are the sweetest Ducklings I've ever seen; they're all just like their wretch of a father, who never comes to see me." Question: What did the big egg look like after it opened scrambling out? Answer: He was very big and ugly.
Context: At this Oonagh set up a loud laugh of great contempt, by the way, and looked at him as if he were only a mere handful of a man. When Finn saw this he felt a certain description of moisture, which shall be nameless, oozing out through every pore of his skin; but Oonagh, depending upon her woman's wit, felt not a whit daunted. Question: What did Far Rua do after he pulled the middle finger and cracked it three times? Answer: went outside, and getting his arms about the house, completely turned it as Oonagh had wished
Context: The years passed quickly by and the child grew to be fifteen years of age. He was taller and far stronger than any other boys of his own age, he had a handsome face and a heart full of courage, and he was very wise for his years. Question: Why was the old couple's pleasure very great when they looked at him? Answer: He was just what they thought a hero ought to be like.
Context: The servants and conceited folk at the big house began to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge, and to annoy her with their impudence. and the servants that he used to be boasting to were soon flocking from the castle, and grinning, and huzzaing, and beating tunes on tongs and shovels and pans; and he cursing and swearing, and the eyes ready to start out of his head, and he so black in the face, and kicking out his legs behind him like mad. Question: How did the head footman feel after the youngest princess tricked him? Answer: angry
Context: ONCE on a time, a mouse and a bird and a sausage lived and kept house together in perfect peace among themselves, and in great prosperity. But the other bird called him a poor simpleton to do so much work, while the two others led easy lives at home. Question: What was the bird's business? Answer: to fly to the forest every day and bring back wood
Context: But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what wanted. So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile, and said:  "Oh, Mr. Crocodile, isn't it a lovely day?" Question: Why did the hare use a trick instead of asking? Answer: He was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what he wanted.
Context: exclaimed suddenly a child that stood crying at the door and knocking for admittance, while the rain poured down, and the wind made all the windows rattle. " There stood a little boy, quite naked, and the water ran down from his long golden hair. Question: Why did the boy ask to come inside? Answer: he was cold and wet
Context: "Yes, here they are," said the youth; and he flung them on the table so that they rang. Yet the princess once more began to toy and joke with him, so that he thought neither of himself nor of the ball of gold twine, and while they were in the midst of their merry play she stole the golden ball from him, and then dismissed him. Question: What was the second task given to the youth? Answer: keep the princess' ball of twine for her and have it back by to-morrow noon
Context: "Faith," said Finn, "beautiful; and how are you, Oonagh--and how did you sport your figure during my absence, my bilberry?" "Why, avourneen," said Finn, putting in his answer in the proper way, "never the thing but the purest of love and affection for yourself. Finn spent two or three happy days with Oonagh, and felt himself very comfortable considering the dread he had of Far Rua. Question: Who had been troubling Finn? Answer: Far Rua
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: Why was Sylvia happy with her stay in Princess Cynthia's court? Answer: She learned a valuable lesson.
Context: But the king was still much troubled, fearing the loss of Sipao, for the mirror had magic powers, so that he who owned it had but to ask and his wish would be fulfilled; to it Insato owed all that he possessed. And the wasp answered: 'There is nothing in the world, O Gopani-Kufa, which is of such value as this Mirror, for it is a Wishing Mirror, and accomplishes the desires of him who owns it. Question: Why did the king fear the loss os Sipao? Answer: For the mirror had magic powers so that he who owned it had but to ask and his wish would be fulfilled.
Context: All the silverware was still on the table, but all the tasty dishes had turned to moss and toadstools, and frogs and toads and the like. You have been sitting here yourself, and talking about our wedding the whole afternoon!" Question: How did the bride feel when she the real person she was to marry? Answer: confused
Context: One path leads to the south-west shore of the Sea of Dungting, the second path leads to a valley in the land of the four rivers, the third path ends in a cave on the mountain of Lo-Fu and the fourth in an island of the Eastern Sea. In this cave dwells the seventh daughter of the Dragon-King of the Eastern Sea, who guards his pearls and his treasure. Question: Who guarded the Dragon-King's pearls and treasure? Answer: the seventh daughter of the Dragon-King of the Eastern Sea
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. If White Feather should overcome the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on, until they had all measured speed with him. By a dexterous use of the vine, he gained the first race, struck down his competitor, and cut off his head. Question: How did White Feather win the first race? Answer: by a dexterous use of the vine
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " So the fellows gathered round Tom, and the bad man aggravated him till he told them he didn't care a pinch of snuff for the whole bilin' of 'em. says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." Question: What happened after the princess saw Tom fight the men? Answer: The princess was so amused that she let a great sweet laugh out of her that was heard all over the yard.
Context: But the Wolf had seen the Fox beginning to grow greasy, and he knew now what had happened, and he determined to have his revenge. Then, keeping at a safe distance, he said to his companion, "There is writing on that smithy door, which I cannot read, as my eyes are failing; do thou try to read it, for perchance it may be something it were good for us to know." Question: How did the Wolf feel after he realized the Fox tricked him? Answer: angry
Context: So Farquhar took the little creature out carefully between his finger and thumb. "Dost know anything of my friends, or where my father's cottage is gone to?" Question: What did Farquhar do after he saw the ancient man's father? Answer: took the little creature out carefully between his finger and thumb, and set him on the palm of his left hand
Context: Sylvia was glad to have leisure to think, for she could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself, and the time was drawing very near. By degrees I wearied of what had so delighted me at first, especially as I perceived more and more plainly that it is impossible to be constantly smart and amusing without being frequently ill-natured, and too apt to turn all things, even the most serious, into mere occasions for a brilliant jest.' Question: How did Phyllida treat Sylvia? Answer: with much kindness
Context: asked Tron Valfjeldet--for that was what he called the wolves. When he had reached the farmstead, he went into the house and asked for shelter. Question: What did Tron Valfjeldet call the wolves? Answer: snakes
Context: The youth turned around quickly, and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off. But now they were delivered, because he had come down to them, and had never contradicted. Question: How did the youth feel when he saw the maiden? Answer: astonished
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: Who was Murtough's wife? Answer: Duivsech
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: What did the king send Aspenclog to do? Answer: gather wood
Context: She even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor. Question: What happened because Hase-Hime played so beautifully? Answer: She and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor.
Context: He scrambled up and up; but before he reached the chimney top he came to a place where somebody had loosened a stone in the wall. He squeezed through the hole in the wall, and dragged himself along a most uncomfortably tight passage where there was scarcely any light. Question: What was laid in the chimney? Answer: mutton bones
Context: The wily horse-dealer thought that he saw a chance of driving a good bargain. The gold that the stranger gave him was not the gold that was in use at the time, but was fashioned into Unicorns, and Bonnet-pieces, and other ancient coins. Question: What did the old man do when he could not bargain with the horse-dealer? Answer: agreed to buy the animals, and, pulling a bag of gold from the pocket of his queerly cut breeches, he began to count out the price
Context: In fact, he began to think that his master was right, and that the whole thing must have been a dream. That day, as the sun went down, the orra man left the farm to go home to his cottage. Question: Where did the poor man go to after he left the farm? Answer: his cottage
Context: For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her. When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest. Question: Why did the girl wanted a draught of milk from a gourd? Answer: There were no streams in that part, and she was very thirsty.
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: What happened after Sheen told Murtough her name? Answer: He brought her to his home, and drove out the clerics that were there, with his wife and children along with them, and drove out also the nobles of his own clan, the children of Niall, two great and gallant battalions.
Context: She directed him to put in his girdle a blade of scented sword-grass, and to proceed the next morning to the banks of the lake, which was no other than that over which the Red Head reigned. These offers he was to refuse, and to say that he had come a great distance to be the wife of the Red Head, and that if the chief could not seek her for himself, she would return to her village. Question: Where did Red Head live? Answer: upon an island in the centre of his realm of water
Context: The next morning he got up with the sun, and said to the old man and to the old woman and to his wife:  'Farewell: my foot shall not return to the house till I have found other three people as silly as you.' He walked away till he came to the town, and seeing the door of a cottage standing open wide. Question: Where did the young man go to after he left his home? Answer: to the town
Context: Although he provided for their support, the little spirit never performed household or hard work of any kind, and his sister obeyed. "She thinks," said the boy-man to himself, "I can see no further into the water than she. Question: Why did the boy say "Me-zush-ke-zin-ance"? Answer: He needed an old moccasin.
Context: Then Letiko went straight home, and said to her mother: 'While I was gathering herbs a fine tall gentleman came to me and charged me to tell you that you should remember what you promised him.' When the woman heard that she was sore afraid, and immediately shut all the doors and windows of the house, stopped up all the chinks and holes, and kept Letiko hidden away, that the Sunball should not come and take her away. Question: How does Letiko describe Sunball? Answer: a fine tall gentleman
Context: cried she, and stretched her hands out over a little blue crocus, that hung quite sickly on one side. " All at once an icy cold rushed through the great hall, and the blind mother could feel that it was Death that came. " Question: Will the mother try to protect her child against Death? Answer: yes, she will
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Why was Dectera alarmed? Answer: Her son wanted to join the military academy.
Context: They ate and drank and enjoyed themselves, and then slept far into the next day. The youth was still asleep when the old man came and offered him a morning draft in a golden goblet. Question: What was the youth allowed to do as a reward? Answer: pick out what he wanted
Context: "That's all very fine," thought the youth--he said nothing, but he thought it would be better, after all, to drive to his home, instead of down into the hideous rat-hole. And at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth's mother, and when she came the wedding festivities began. Question: How did the youth feel when he saw the beautiful castle? Answer: shocked
Context: But the Wolf had seen the Fox beginning to grow greasy, and he knew now what had happened, and he determined to have his revenge. Then, keeping at a safe distance, he said to his companion, "There is writing on that smithy door, which I cannot read, as my eyes are failing; do thou try to read it, for perchance it may be something it were good for us to know." Question: Why did the horse kick the Fox? Answer: He chanced to touch the horse's fetlock.
Context: He related all that had happened to him from the moment of his leaving the temporary night-lodge with the flame on his head. All were delighted to make the acquaintance of the old Sand-Spirit's daughter; and as they had heard that he was a magician and guardian of great power, the tobacco which he had sent for by his son-in-law, came in, in great abundance, with every visitor. Question: What did the Indian people find themselves astonished by when they saw Wassamo's wife? Answer: her beauty, at the whiteness of her skin, and that she was able to talk with them in their own language
Context: There were once five-and-twenty tin soldiers, who were all brothers, for they had been made out of the same old tin spoon. They shouldered arms and looked straight before them, and wore a splendid uniform, red and blue. Question: What are all the tin soldiers made from? Answer: the same old tin spoon
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: Why was the hunter's family surprised? Answer: The monster never attempted their lives.
Context: At last it happened that a youth from her village passed through the place where the girl's brother was, and the two met and talked. asked the young man, with whom things had gone badly, for he was idle. Question: How did the brother know what his sister was doing? Answer: A youth from her village passed through the place where the girl's brother was, and the two met and talked.
Context: Unfortunately, the new-comer was by nature spiteful and envious, and could not bear anyone to have better luck than himself. By dint of spying through keyholes and listening at doors, he learned that the king, old and ugly though he was, had fallen in love with the Princess Bella-Flor, who would have nothing to say to him, and had hidden herself in some mountain castle, no one knew where. Question: Why did the younger brother want the king to send Jose after Princess Bella-Flor? Answer: He was trying to get Jose out of his path.
Context: I WILL tell you a story that was told to me when I was a little boy. Every time I think of this story it seems to me more and more charming; for it is with stories as it is with many people--they become better as they grow older. Question: Why are stories like many people? Answer: They become better as they grow older.
Context: "As you choose," replied the shepherd, "but first we must abuse each other so that we can get into a proper rage. As we abuse each other we will grow angry, and when we are angry we will fight!" Question: What did the giant propose? Answer: They will fight with one another.
Context: At that he felt quite ill at ease, and covered his head with his wings, and knew not what to do. And the lilacs bowed their branches down to the water, and the sun shone warm and pleasant, and his plumage ruffled, and he raised his slender neck, and from his heart he said joyfully: "Such happiness I never dreamed of when I was the Ugly Duckling." Question: How did the duckling feel when everyone said he was the most beautiful of all beautiful birds? Answer: He was more than happy, and yet not proud.
Context: Mike by the Stove replied that he had neither said nor thought anything of the kind; but that seeing the king was so severe, he would try it. When he had sat down in all peace and comfort under a pine-tree by the side of the road, an old woman came limping along, and asked him what he had in his knapsack. " Question: Who did Mike by the Stove meet in the woods when he sat down under a pine tree? Answer: an old woman
Context: Long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded, and he was astonished to behold a man; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather. He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: What happened after the young man had the three magic gifts? Answer: The young man departed the next morning, to seek his enemies, and to demand revenge.
Context: But the poor fat officer could do nothing but squat on his knees with his hands together, gasping. Off the poor man went, and by the time the troops of Moti's side had come up and arranged themselves to look as formidable as possible, he returned with his king. Question: What did the enemies do after they ran away? Answer: promised never to make war any more, to pay a large sum of money, and altogether do whatever his conqueror wished
Context: In the evening, when the young king and his wife retired, the queen asked him why he had been so taciturn and serious the evening before. In a moment Lillwacker was alive again, and the two brother's went joyfully back to the castle. Question: How did Silverwhite feel when he realized his brother was innocent? Answer: regret
Context: Once upon a time there was a king who had three sons, who were all so clever and brave that he began to be afraid that they would want to reign over the kingdom before he was dead. Now the King, though he felt that he was growing old, did not at all wish to give up the government of his kingdom while he could still manage it very well, so he thought the best way to live in peace would be to divert the minds of his sons by promises which he could always get out of when the time came for keeping them. Question: Why was the king afraid that his sons would want to reign over the kingdom before he was dead? Answer: They were all so clever and brave.
Context: Timmy Willie, who had lived all his life in a garden, was almost frightened to death. Presently the cook opened the hamper and began to unpack the vegetables. Question: Why did the cook jump on a chair and shout? Answer: Out sprang the terrified Timmy Willie.
Context: Young man, the errand you are bound on is beset with trials and difficulties. But powerful Indians, warriors of a distant chief, came and told him that their chief's daughter was on the brink of the grave, and that she herself requested his wampum-cap, which she was confident would save her life. ' Question: Why was it dangerous to pursue the Red Swan? Answer: The Red Swan was the daughter of a magician.
Context: Said the other: "In your district there lives a certain Wang, who was formerly superintendent of the granaries, and at that time caused the death of an officer. The King of the Nether World cannot come to a decision in the case, and therefore has asked the Lord of the Great Mountain to settle it. Question: How did the Lord of the Great Mountain settle the problem? Answer: ordered that Wang's property and life be shortened
Context: She danced, and was obliged to go on dancing through the dark night. And he carved her a pair of wooden feet and some crutches, and taught her a psalm which is always sung by sinners; she kissed the hand that guided the axe, and went away over the heath. Question: What did the executioner carve for Karen? Answer: a pair of wooden feet and some crutches
Context: This wise and good Emperor did not rest till he had secured peace and prosperity throughout his whole land. The Empress and the courtiers were so frightened that they ran away screaming. Question: Why did the Empress and the courtiers run away screaming? Answer: They were so frightened.
Context: After they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady-love. "She has no conversation," he said, "and I am afraid that she is a coquette, for she is always flirting with the wind." But the Happy Prince looked so sad that the little Swallow was sorry. Question: Where was the Swallow headed before he met the Happy Prince? Answer: Egypt
Context: He found all the members of the crab's family and his relatives waiting to receive and welcome him. As soon as the bows of meeting were over they led him to a hall. Question: What did they do after they exchanged condolence and thanks? Answer: sat down to a luxurious feast and entertained the monkey as the guest of honor
Context: Now the Afghans began to look a little uncomfortable, but Moti seemed so determined to keep the horse that they resolved to appeal to the law, so they went off and laid a complaint before the king that Moti had stolen one of their horses and would not give it up nor pay for it. But Moti declared that he had got the animal in exchange for fifty pieces of silver, whilst the horse merchants vowed that the money they had on them was what they had received for the sale of other horses; and in one way and another the dispute got so confusing that the king (who really thought that Moti had stolen the horse) said at last, 'Well, I tell you what I will do. Question: What did the king do after Moti arrived? Answer: question him as to why he had galloped off with the horse in this fashion
Context: Another evening, when they were all so happy, and the prince dandling the baby, a beautiful greyhound stood before them, took the child out of the father's hand, and was out of the door before you could wink. The princess opened her eyes in a great fright and stared at her, and while she was doing so, the lady wrapped a shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father's lap, and either sank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney. Question: Who took the youngest princess's third baby? Answer: a lady
Context: So everybody was pleased when Sally Henny Penny sent out a printed poster to say that she was going to re-open the shop--"Henny's Opening Sale! The shop was crammed with customers, and there were crowds of mice upon the biscuit canisters. Question: What happened after Sally Henny Penny reopened the shop? Answer: The shop was crammed with customers.
Context: 'Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wanted one?' Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find, and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it, and his sister had no home to go to. Question: What did the sister say after the brother asked her why she refused to sell pumpkins to his wife? Answer: The old ones were finished, and the new ones were not yet come.
Context: "True," thought Wunzh, "the Great Spirit made all things, and it is to him that we owe our lives. The beautiful stranger was richly and gayly dressed, having on a great many garments of green and yellow colors, but differing in their deeper or lighter shades. He sees that it is from a kind and benevolent wish to do good to your people, and to procure a benefit for them. Question: Who came down from the sky advancing towards Wunzh? Answer: a handsome young man
Context: 'Oh, nothing; I did not feel inclined to talk, that was all!' 'I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen,' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled. Question: What happened after the couple had the conversation about the soup-tureen? Answer: The woman spoke less and less, and seemed so wretched that her husband grew quite frightened about her.
Context: And he told the king's son he was to fetch his horse from the pasture, and when he had done this, he might rest: "For you have come to a kind master," said he. " Yet it is not an easy matter to ride this horse home," said the Master Girl, "but I will tell you how to set about it. Then he stood still, as gentle as a young lamb, and he had no trouble bringing him to the stable. Question: What was special about the giant's horse? Answer: It was not an easy matter to ride this horse home.
Context: Maidwa was borne gently along but a little way above their heads; and as they followed him, the rush and hum of the people was like the dead beating of the surges upon a lake shore after a storm. In a moment Maidwa came past with rustling wings, and as he flew by, giving the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp, his limbs extended and quivered in an agony, the scalp adhered, and Maidwa, in his own person, walked into the lodge and sat down, feeling perfectly at home. Question: Why did Maidwa turn into a hawk? Answer: to escape the Indians
Context: Once upon a time there was a strong young farmer who came home late one evening from market. He was astonished, and climbed the wall around the gardens, but there was not a human being in sight; all he saw was, at a distance, something which appeared to be a dog, looking up at the moon. Question: How did the strong young farmer feel when he saw something shining floating in the air inside the gardens? Answer: astonished
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: What did Jack my Hedgehog make the King promise him? Answer: let him have whatever first met him on his return
Context: Once upon a time there was a young man named Farquhar MacNeill. However, before he saw what he took to be the light from a cottage window on his left hand, some distance from the path, and, forgetting his Mistress's instructions that he was to follow the path right over the hill. Question: Why did Farquhar's mistress need to borrow a sieve? Answer: She wanted to sift some meal.
Context: The first time he came to earth he was the Yellow Lord, who taught mankind all sorts of arts. At the beginning of the reign of the Han dynasty, he again appeared as the Old Man of the River, (Ho Schang Gung). Question: Why was Li Oerl called Laotsze? Answer: When he was born his hair and beard were white.
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. Question: What did Iadilla to do his breast? Answer: painted with vermilion over all his breast
Context: Then he slept again, and he saw a vision, to wit, that he was tossing in a ship at sea, and the ship floundered, and above his head a griffin, with sharp beak and talons, sailed, her wings outspread and covering all the sun, so that it was dark as middle-night; and lo! as she rose on high, her plumes quivered for a moment in the air; then down she swooped and picked him from the waves, carrying him to her eyrie on the dismal cliff outhanging o'er the ocean; and the griffin began to pierce him and to prod him with her talons, and to pick out pieces of his flesh with her beak; and this went on awhile, and then a flame, that came he knew not whence, rose from the nest, and he and the griffin were enveloped in the flame. Question: Where did the griffin carry Murtough to? Answer: her eyrie on the dismal cliff outhanging o'er the ocean
Context: There was once a Fox and a Wolf, who set up house together in a cave near the sea-shore. Although you may not think so, they got on very well for a time, for they went out hunting all day, and when they came back at night they were generally too tired to do anything but to eat their supper and go to bed. Question: Who was not nearly so clever as the Fox was? Answer: the Wolf
Context: After a time the foster-mother wanted to take another journey, and she forbade the girl, above all, to go into the two rooms which, as yet, she had not entered. When the foster-mother returned, and saw the moon had slipped out, she again grieved greatly, and told the girl she could keep her no longer, and that now she must go. Question: Where was the girl forbidden from? Answer: the two other rooms
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: Who was the king's only son? Answer: Art the Solitary
Context: The little hare, who took seven miles in a stride, was there in no time at all, and he stopped on the borders of a lake. 'The Porcelain Maiden,' said the hare to the youth, 'will come here to bathe with her friends, while I just eat a mouthful of thyme to refresh me. Question: Why does the little hare ask the youngest son to hide The Porcelain Maiden's clothes? Answer: to pressure her to consent to follow the son
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: What was the name of Dectera's child? Answer: Setanta
Context: Jegu declared that nothing could be easier, and then taking off his hat, he thanked the dwarf heartily, and led his horses back to the farm. Next morning was a holiday, and Barbaik was awake earlier than usual, as she wished to get through her work as soon as possible, and be ready to start for a dance which was to be held some distance off. Question: What did she find surprising at the cow-house? Answer: She found fresh straw put down, the tracks filled with hay, the cows milked, and the pails standing neatly in a row.
Context: You need not take for granted that a fellow is a vagabond because he goes about in rags. But the youth insisted that it was gospel truth, and took a birch bough, and drove his father to the king's castle-gate. Question: What did the youth want his father to do? Answer: go to the king as his proxy, and ask his daughter's hand for him
Context: The rest of the Old Spirit seemed to have done him much good, for he was very cheerful; and, first putting his head forth from the window for a puff at a sand-hill, which was his prime luxury in a morning, he said to Wassamo, "Son-in-law, you have been very patient with our long absence from your company, and you shall be rewarded. You will prosper in all things, for my daughter is very diligent. Question: What would the wife do while Wassamo slept? Answer: be at work
Context: Now it happened that one Thursday evening late in the fall there was a terrible storm raging outside. It was pitch dark, and it rained and stormed so that the house shook in every joint. Question: What did the family do during the storm? Answer: sat around the hearth
Context: So the girl related all her history, and what had happened to her, and when the mother heard how she came to have such great riches she began to wish that her ugly and idle daughter might have the same good fortune. So she sent her to sit by the well and spin; and in order to make her spindle bloody she put her hand into the thorn hedge. So that Mother Hulda soon grew tired of her, and gave her warning, at which the lazy thing was well pleased, and thought that now the shower of gold was coming; so Mother Hulda led her to the door, and as she stood in the doorway, instead of the shower of gold a great kettle full of pitch was emptied over her. Question: What did the ugly daughter do when the bread and apple tree asked for her help? Answer: she kept walking
Context: And the Mother-Stork began talking in the nest, and told about Egypt and the waters of the Nile, and the incomparable mud that was to be found in that strange land; and all this sounded new and very charming to the little Toad. All the longing and all the pleasure that I feel is much better than having a jewel in one's head." Question: What was the jewel? Answer: continual striving and desire to go upward
Context: Maidwa's pack for traveling was now ready, and he was taking his farewell smoke, when the young magician thus addressed him: "My friend Maidwa, you know for what cause you came thus far, and why you have risked so much and waited so long. He then spoke in a language which Maidwa did not understand, the curtain of the lodge parted, and the Red Swan met his gaze. She is worthy of you, and what you have done for me merits more. Question: What happened after the curtain of the lodge parted? Answer: The Red Swan met Maidwa's gaze.
Context: The first time he came to earth he was the Yellow Lord, who taught mankind all sorts of arts. At the beginning of the reign of the Han dynasty, he again appeared as the Old Man of the River, (Ho Schang Gung). Question: Who did the Yellow Ancient appear as during the Han dynasty? Answer: the Old Man of the River
Context: With that the King whistled, and down came the poor goose, all as one as a hound, waddlin' up to the poor old cripple, her master, and as like him as two pays. Now,' says he, 'this is the bargain I'll make with you, King O'Toole: will you give me all the ground the goose flies over, the first offer, after I make her as good as new?' Question: What did Saint Kavin ask from the king? Answer: all the ground the goose flew over after Saint Kavin made her as good as new
Context: The wife took the box, and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached. What I have brought you is called a mirror, and whoever looks into its clear surface can see their own form reflected there. Although there are none to be found in this out of the way place, yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times. Question: Where had been using mirrors since ancient times? Answer: the capital
Context: Now, the badger is one of the most cunning of animals, and he said again in a very sad, gentle, voice:  "You are very unkind. If you would only let me down for a few minutes I would indeed be thankful!" Question: What did the woman do because she had a good and simple nature? Answer: untied the cord and let the badger down
Context: Watanabe, the second knight, could not bear the thought that his companion should believe he was afraid, so he answered quickly:  "Of course, I will go at once and find out for myself!" So Watanabe at once got ready to go-he buckled on his long sword and put on a coat of armor, and tied on his large helmet. Question: What did Watanabe bring with him? Answer: long sword and coat of armor and large helmet
Context: In a lonely forest, there once lived a man and his wife, who had a son. As he advanced rapidly, she ran in, and taking the hand of her son, a boy of three or four years old, she led him out. Question: What did the father do every day according to the custom of the Indians? Answer: hunt for food
Context: Then Li Dsing, on the occasion of a great military drill, once came by the cliff in question, and saw the people crowding thickly about the hill like a swarm of ants. He spurred his horse up the hill and, sure enough, over the door of the temple was written: "Notscha's Shrine." Question: What did Notscha's father do to destroy the temple? Answer: drew forth his whip, beat Notscha's idolatrous likeness to pieces with it, had the temple burned down, and the worshipers mildly reproved
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: How did Tom feel after defeating the giants? Answer: proud
Context: Then Thomas took courage, and looked up; and lo, they were riding through a beautiful orchard, where apples and pears, dates and figs and wine-berries grew in great abundance. And his tongue was so parched and dry, and he felt so faint, that he longed for some of the fruit to restore him. Question: Why did the Queen of Fairies forbid Thomas from eating fruits in the orchard? Answer: It was not safe to eat.
Context: As he did so he became aware that some one was behind him, and at the same time a voice called out to him to wait. Watanabe knew at once that this was the arm of an ogre, so he drew his sword and cut at it fiercely. Question: Who seized Watanabe's helmet from the back? Answer: an ogre
Context: Then I used to lie in a velvet-covered chair, up at the master's house, and sit in the mistress's lap. They used to kiss my nose, and wipe my paws with an embroidered handkerchief, and I was called 'Ami, dear Ami, sweet Ami.' Question: Where did the yard-dog used to lie? Answer: in a velvet-covered chair, up at the master's house
Context: If he had done so all the rest of his life might have been different. And, before Dick knew what he was about, a perfect whirlwind of cold, raw air tore through the cavern, carrying the luckless horse-dealer along with it. Question: What did Canonbie Dick do the next morning? Answer: whispered the story of his weird and fearful adventure
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: What was the giant's name? Answer: Roc
Context: At last the venerable dormouse himself undertook it, for the very good reason that no one else would. That is the reason why it is now one of the tiniest creatures upon the earth. In this business he was very expert, and he had a new bird-skin coat made, which was prettier than the one he had worn before. Question: How will the boy feel when he discovers that the sun had escaped his snare? Answer: surprised
Context: Yamato Take soon reached the opposite shore and landed safely, even as his wife Ototachibana had prayed. His prowess in war was marvelous, and he succeeded after some time in conquering the Eastern Barbarians, the Ainu. Question: What did Yama learn too late? Answer: esteem the goodness of his wife's heart and the greatness of her love for him
Context: And this cup was filled with heather ale, which foamed up over the brim; and when the Knight saw Sir Gregory, he lifted it from the table, and handed it to him with a stately bow, and Sir Gregory, being very thirsty, drank. And as he drank he noticed that the ale in the goblet never grew less, but ever foamed up to the edge; and for the first time his heart misgave him, and he wished that he had never set out on this strange adventure. Question: Why did the goblins convince Earl Gregory to get into their Ring and throw their spell over him? Answer: They wanted him to spend many years with them.
Context: I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child where he saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. When she saw me she gave a cry out of her, and she said, "Oh, my soul to God, if the master isn't come to life again." And when the mistress heard of it, she came to see with her own eyes, for she would not believe I was there. Question: What happened after the wolf was hit by the rod? Answer: He came back to his own shape again.
Context: The next day the hunter accordingly went into the woods, and his son, calling the boy from the tree, urged him to go with him to kill the squirrels. The children were never parted from each other; and when the hunter looked upon the strange boy, he seemed to see living in him the better spirit of his lost wife. Question: What happened while the boys were busy killing or taking squirrels? Answer: The hunter suddenly made his appearance, and clasped the strange boy in his arms.
Context: The heavens were clear, and the sun shone out as brightly to Strong Desire as on the first morning when he had put forth his little head from the door of his father's lodge. As they approached the shore, Strong Desire saw that the ribs of the sorcerer's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes, whose heads pointed outward to guard him from his enemies. From this scrutiny she was convinced that this singular and hasty marriage boded no good to her son. Question: Why did Red Head want to marry Strong Desire? Answer: Strong Desire rejected everyone's proposals.
Context: Long, long ago, there lived an old farmer and his wife who had made their home in the mountains, far from any town. So he lay in wait day after day and night after night, with a big club, hoping to catch the badger, but all in vain. Question: Why was the badger bad and malicious? Answer: He used to come out every night and run across the farmer's fields and spoil the vegetables and the rice.
Context: When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supper herself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another, for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time. Question: Why were there many women who needed the girl's pot? Answer: Never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time.
Context: He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit of armour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and the other people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. When the King's daughter came home she said that she would never marry a man but the man whom that shoe would fit. Question: Why did the lad know the story better than the gentleman? Answer: The lad was the champion.
Context: Dung asked him further particulars; but the other merely said: "Later on you will see it all for yourself." In two years' time you will go to Taianfu, the city near the Great Mountain, and there we will meet again." Question: Why didn't the man touch the goblet or the chopsticks? Answer: Spirits only fed on odors.
Context: There was once a little boy whose name was Lars, and because he was so little he was called Little Lasse; he was a brave little man, for he sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat. Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rose high above his cap, and he picked seventeen large shells, the longest and straightest he could find. Question: Why weren't there any sparrows that flew out? Answer: Little Lasse had no wings, only two small legs.
Context: Round about the garden ran a hedge of hazel-bushes; beyond the hedge were fields and meadows with cows and sheep; but in the middle of the garden stood a Rose-tree in bloom, under which sat a Snail, whose shell contained a great deal--that is, himself. " Only wait till my time comes," he said; "I shall do more than grow roses, bear nuts, or give milk, like the hazel-bush, the cows and the sheep." " Question: Who sat under the rose tree? Answer: a snail
Context: Now when they had already covered a good bit of the homeward road, they passed close to a steep cliff-side where the giants dwelt. No, that I will not allow under any circumstances," answered the father, "otherwise you will be lost to me into the bargain." Question: What happened because the six sons were given all the good horses? Answer: The king had only a wretched old nag for the youngest.
Context: "Here, under your girdle," answered the shell-dwarf; at which giant Manabozho, thinking to crush him, slapped down his great hand with all his might; but on unloosing his girdle he was disappointed at finding no dwarf there. the dwarf replied; whereupon the giant Manabozho seized himself by the finger and thumb at the place, and gave it a violent tweak; but as he immediately heard the voice of the dwarf at a distance upon the ground, he was satisfied that he had only pulled his own nose to no purpose. Question: How did Manabozho feel about pulling his nose to no purpose? Answer: satisfied
Context: Once upon a time there lived a peasant called Ivan, and he had a wife whose name was Marie. When it had all fallen, and the sun was shining again, the children ran out into the street to play, and the old man and his wife sat at their window and gazed at them. Question: Who had a wife whose name was Marie? Answer: Ivan
Context: Then she combed their tails and whiskers (this is Tom Kitten). Mrs. Tabitha dressed Moppet and Mittens in clean pinafores and tuckers; and then she took all sorts of elegant uncomfortable clothes out of a chest of drawers, in order to dress up her son Thomas. Question: Who was the very naughty kitten? Answer: Tom Kitten
Context: On the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city, the rich one on horseback, with plenty of food in his knapsack, the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eat on the way. The lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer, who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife's birthday, and bade the rich man enter and sit down, while he himself took the horse to the stable. The poor man asked timidly if he might spend the night in a corner, adding that he had brought his own supper with him. Question: What will happen after the farmer's wife eats the onion? Answer: She will feel sick.
Context: Johnny Town-mouse quite honestly recommended it as the best bed, kept exclusively for visitors. Timmy Willie preferred to spend a miserable night under the fender. Question: Why did Timmy Willie not want to sleep on the sofa? Answer: The sofa smelt of cat.
Context: The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and that the dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge. Question: What will the cross old neighbor do after seeing the coins that the old man found? Answer: try to find his own treasure
Context: This was the more to be regretted, as the season had arrived when they were soon to go to a southern country to pass the winter, and the children were only waiting to become a little stronger and more expert on the wing to set out on the journey. Finding that their elder brother did not return, they resolved to go in search of him. Question: What did the falcons do when their elder brother did not return? Answer: search for him
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: Why did the elder son grow poorer and poorer? Answer: He gave his money to his younger brother.
Context: Soon after sunrise next day the prince's wife was standing on a little hill behind the house, when she saw a cloud of dust coming through the town. In any case they must not discover her there; so just bidding the ring prepare some food for them, she ran inside, and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face. Question: How did the girl feel after she realized her husband might be in the crowd? Answer: nervous
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: Why did the king grow old? Answer: He was stiff in his limbs, and when he got stricken in years, his heart failed him, and he was lost entirely.
Context: The hunter's son followed, and having come to the tree, he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part. In the course of the evening he asked his father to make him a new bow; and when he was questioned as to the use he could find for two bows, he answered that one might break or get lost. Question: What did the hunter's son urge the beautiful boy to do? Answer: come out and play with him
Context: Sometimes he was enforced to pass the night in the clefts of old trees or caverns, and to break his fast with the refuse meals of the savage wolves. These at last became his only resource, and he grew to be so little fearful of these animals that he would sit by them while they devoured their meat, and patiently await his share. This time it was the well-known cry of his younger brother that reached his ear. Question: What happened to Sheem after he met the wolves? Answer: was adopted into the wolves' family
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. Question: Where did Finn work? Answer: the Giant's Causeway
Context: When they came to the house of the guardian of the pass, red clouds appeared in the sky. Laotsze's servant told the servant of the guardian that his master owed him a great deal of money, and begged the latter to put in a good word for him. Then the guardian of the pass cast himself to earth and pleaded for him. Question: What will happen to the guardian after he meets Laotsze? Answer: follow his teachings, and will be given a place among the immortals
Context: He entered his chariot and drove to the river in festival procession. And from far and near men, women and children had flocked together in order to see the show. Question: How did the sorcerers prepare the river-bride? Answer: placed the river-bride on a couch
Context: The bear being the biggest and the oldest, answered for the others:  "That will be great fun," said she. " I am the strongest animal, so I will make the platform for the wrestlers." Question: What game did Kintaro suggest? Answer: a wrestling match
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: Why did the hare think it was lucky to see the crocodile? Answer: He will ask the crocodile to carry across the sea.
Context: For a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower. She seated herself on the rock, put her hand to her cheek, cried, and thought of her unkind step-mother and step-sisters, and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned. When she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man, who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble. Question: What will the tiny old man do for the king's daughter? Answer: help her
Context: Now every one came out of church, and the old lady stepped into her carriage. She danced round the church corner, for she could not stop; the coachman had to run after her and seize her. Question: What happened when Karen started dancing? Answer: she couldn't stop
Context: They marched along as fast as they could, but still it was farther away than it seemed. They went in and sat down, and the old man laid an armful of wood and a couple of big logs on the fire, until every corner was as bright as day, and wherever they looked everything was indescribably splendid. Question: How was the youth treated by the prince's father? Answer: well
Context: But it is a woman's danger to be petty and mean, and step-mothers are proverbial all the world over, and this one's heart was not as her first smiles were. The step-mother never trusted her, and seemed to misinterpret all her actions, and the poor child knew very well that she often carried unkind and untrue tales to her father. Looking over her shoulder, to see who was entering her room, the girl was surprised to see her father, for he generally sent for her when he wished to speak to her. Question: Why had the girl been unhappy for a long time? Answer: The step-mother treated her poorly.
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: What happened because Aspenclog piled up such a tremendous load? Answer: Two horses could not pull the wagon.
Context: In due time, what with good nursing, and good feeding, and good air, Gray Eagle recovered from his wound, and he repaid the kindness of his brothers by giving them such advice and instruction in the art of hunting as his age and experience qualified him to impart. As spring advanced, they began to look about for the means of replenishing their store-house, whose supplies were running low; and they were all quite successful in their quest except the youngest, whose name was Peepi, or the Pigeon-Hawk, and who had of late begun to set up for himself. Question: What made Gray Eagle recover from his wound? Answer: good nursing
Context: Once upon a time there lived a man in the forest of Dovre whose name was Ola Storbaekkjen. In the summer he dealt in cattle at Valders and the fjords, and fought with the fjord-folk and the hill people of Halling and Valders, and always had the best of it. Question: Why was Ola the victor in every brawl? Answer: He was of giant build, powerful and fearless.
Context: "Let the devil fetch the water, I'm far too handsome to bother with it!" When the king arrived, and saw the swart, homely kitchen-maid, he grew red and white in turn; but when he heard the people say she was the greatest beauty in twelve kingdoms, he had to believe, willy-nilly, that there was something in it, and he did not want to be unjust to Mike by the Stove, who had taken so much trouble to find her. Question: What happened because the king did not want to be unjust to Mike by the Stove? Answer: took the cook home with him
Context: While the monkey and the hare wrestled, the deer called out encouragingly or shouted warnings to each of them as the hare or the monkey pushed each other near the edge of the platform and were in danger of falling over. So the monkey and the hare, encouraged by their friends, tried their very hardest to beat each other. Question: How will the monkey feel when he loses? Answer: angry
Context: High above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy Prince. "He is as beautiful as a weathercock," remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes; "only not quite so useful," he added, fearing lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not. Question: What did the Happy Prince have for eyes? Answer: two bright sapphires
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: What happened to Earl Gregory after Earl St. Clair flung the enchanted goblet from him? Answer: Earl Gregory  slowly woke from his enchanted slumber.
Context: One day the old man went to the hills as usual to cut grass and the old woman took some clothes to the river to wash. It was nearly summer, and the country was very beautiful to see in its fresh greenness as the two old people went on their way to work. Question: Where did the old woman take some clothes to wash? Answer: the river
Context: Why did Mr. Jackson come into Mrs.Tittlemouse's house? Question: He was wet. Answer: tale-of-mrs.tittlemouse
Context: So while some were barring the gates, the young devil climbed up and took down the iron flail that had the handstaff and booltheen both made out of red-hot iron. And when he got home to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running and racing as to see himself and the flail. Question: What did the young devil do while some were barring the gates? Answer: climbed up and took down the iron flail that had the handstaff and booltheen both made out of red-hot iron
Context: So the cock was left all alone with the dead hen, and he digged a grave and laid her in it, and he raised a mound above her, and sat himself down and lamented so sore that at last he died. Question: What did the cock do at the hen's grave? Answer: He lamented so sore that at last he died.
Context: "It must look very grand for my wife to have a sentinel to guard her nest," he thought. " When they chanced to catch sight of the storks, one of the boldest of the boys began to sing the old song about the stork. Question: what happened when the children saw the stork? Answer: they started singing
Context: Then they began to eat and drink; but the girl left the hill and went home. This time she also entered, and found everything as it had been the first time, the well-spread table and the bed with the snake in it. Question: What did the snake tell the girl to do when the people came? Answer: do not go with them
Context: When he had made his way far into the Fjoll, he saw a girl driving sheep and goats across a mountain-top. But when he reached the top of the mountain, the girl had vanished, as well as her flock, and all he saw was a great pack of bears. Question: What did Per Gynt do in the morning? Answer: hunted
Context: At last the venerable dormouse himself undertook it, for the very good reason that no one else would. That is the reason why it is now one of the tiniest creatures upon the earth. In this business he was very expert, and he had a new bird-skin coat made, which was prettier than the one he had worn before. Question: Who undertook the task of cutting the cord? Answer: the venerable dormouse
Context: His friends had gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was in love with the most beautiful Reed. said the Swallow, who liked to come to the point at once, and the Reed made him a low bow. Question: What did the other Swallows do when autumn came? Answer: flew away
Context: The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and that the dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge. Question: What happened after digging for some time? Answer: He came upon a heap of old and valuable coins.
Context: And Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle-shout, and he rose impetuously from off his bed, but the wine overcame him, and his strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor. She called upon Cairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people, the men of Owen and of Niall, and together they went to the fort; but Sheen guarded it well, so that they could by no means find an entrance. Question: Why did Murtough rise impetuously off the bed? Answer: Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle-shout.
Context: She was wholly occupied in this employment, without a thought of danger, when, all of a sudden, the king of the buffalos came dashing on with his herd of followers, and making sure of her by means of her drooping tresses, he placed her upon the back of one of his favorite buffalos, and away he cantered over the plains. To the king himself she paid no heed, and although he breathed forth to her every soft and gentle word he could think of, she sat still and motionless for all the world like one of the lowly bushes by the door of her father's lodge, when the summer wind has died away. Question: How will the daughter feel being with the king of the buffalos? Answer: unhappy
Context: He fell very ill, sent for doctors of every kind, even bonesetters, but they, none of them, could find out what was the matter with him, or even give him any relief. At last there came a foreign doctor, who declared that the Golden Blackbird alone could cure the sick man. Question: What did the old lord promise to his eldest son? Answer: The old lord promised him great riches.
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: Why did Brown Allree bend her head down? Answer: to take hold of her feet with her mouth, in hopes Morraha would speak in ignorance
Context: Finn, bearing the head, passed through the sleepers into the palace and spiked the head on his own spear, and drove the spear-end into the ground at Conn's end of the great hall. Having rested himself sufficiently he went forth and shouted to the sleeping host, and called the captains by their names, beginning with Conn. They awoke and rose up, though dazed and stupid, for it was difficult for any man, no matter how he had stopped his ears, to avoid hearing Finn when he sent forth his voice of power. Question: What came upon Finn? Answer: the sickness and faintness of death
Context: The next morning he ran with the second giant, whom he also outran, killed and beheaded. He told White Feather that he was about to be deceived; that he had never known any other sex but his own, but that as he went on his way to the lodge he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world. Question: Who did White Feather meet with before going to the giant's lodge? Answer: his old counselor
Context: One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home. The raspberry king had also remembered the big sister, for when she went in to set the table for dinner, she found eleven big baskets of most beautiful raspberries, and no one knew how they had come there, but everyone guessed. Question: How will Otto feel after he receives his gift? Answer: ashamed
Context: But the poor fat officer could do nothing but squat on his knees with his hands together, gasping. Off the poor man went, and by the time the troops of Moti's side had come up and arranged themselves to look as formidable as possible, he returned with his king. Question: What did the poor fat officer do after he met Moti? Answer: could do nothing but squat on his knees with his hands together, gasping
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: How did the king feel about his child? Answer: proud
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: Why did the cabin-boy have the second sight? Answer: He was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover.
Context: And from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for her young heart. It was a trying position; but her days spent in the recollection of her own beloved mother, and of trying to be what that mother would wish her to be, had made the young girl docile and patient, and she now determined to be filial and dutiful to her father's wife, in all respects. Question: What did the man do after a year passed? Answer: married again
Context: But the princess was so merry and active, and so full of fun and nonsense, that he thought neither of the shears nor of himself. The youth looked through all his pockets; but his shears were not there, and he was more than unhappy when he realized that he had lost them. Question: What will the comrade do because the shears had gone missing? Answer: help the youth get them back
Context: One day the hunter had gone abroad with his bow and arrows, leaving, at the request of the strange boy, one of the two shafts which the friendly Weendigo had given to him, behind in the lodge. When he returned, what were his surprise and joy to see stretched dead by his lodge-door, the black giant who had slain his wife. Question: Who struck down the black giant? Answer: the little stranger from the tree
Context: At last, one day, he knew the persimmons must be quite ripe and he wanted very much to taste one. In his dilemma he thought of his old playmate the monkey, who, he knew, could climb trees better than any one else in the world. Question: Why did the crab think the monkey could help him? Answer: The monkey could climb trees better than any one else in the world.
Context: One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home. When the girls looked into the basket they saw a pair of most beautiful bracelets of precious stones, dark red, and made in the shape of a ripe raspberry and with an inscription: 'To Lisa and Aina'; beside them there was a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm: on it was inscribed 'Otto, never destroy the helpless!' Question: What did the raspberry king give Aina and Lisa? Answer: a pair of most beautiful bracelets of precious stones, dark red
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: How did Hase-Hime astonish her masters? Answer: her wonderful memory and talent
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Why did the King grieve greatly? Answer: Heaven granted him no heir.
Context: They were astonished to find that Tara was still standing, for though the night was dark, the palaces and temples, all of hewn timber, were brilliantly coloured and of many hues, for in those days men delighted in splendid colours. Conn and his only son and Gaul mac Morna followed the young hero into the Teck-Midcuarta, where the spear-long waxen candles were still burning, and when they saw the head of Midna impaled there at the end of the hall, the head of the man whom they believed to be immortal and not to be wounded or conquered, they were filled with great joy, and praised their deliverer and paid him many compliments. Question: Why did the captains ask about Midna's head? Answer: The heads of men slain in battle were always brought away for trophies.
Context: So the sea-sucker came, and lay down and took two or three swallows, and thus lowered the water so that the giant could see the king's son and the Master Girl out on the ship. " But no sooner were they thus far than the Master Girl told the king's son to pour a drop or so of the bottle overboard, and the sea grew so full that they had landed before the sea-sucker could so much as take a single swallow. Question: What happened when the sea-sucker swallowed the water? Answer: lowered the water so that the giant could see the king's son and Master Girl out on the ship
Context: Again, in the evening, when the young people formed a ring around the lodge, and the piepeend-jigun, or leather and bone, passed rapidly from one to the other, she either handed it along without attempting to play, or if she took a part, it was with no effort to succeed. She blushed, and hiding the trophy in her bosom, she thanked the Good Spirit that it was a red ear, and not a crooked, that she had found. Question: How did the girl feel when she picked a red ear? Answer: happy
Context: THERE was once an old goat who had seven little ones, and was as fond of them as ever mother was of her children. "Dear children," said she, "I am going out into the wood; and while I am gone, be on your guard against the wolf, for if he were once to get inside he would eat you up, skin, bones, and all. Question: Why did the old goat have to go into the wood? Answer: to fetch food for her seven little goats
Context: Now when the girl had grown old enough to make distinctions, and had acquired some sense, it chanced that her foster-mother once wished to take a journey. " When her foster-mother came home, she was much grieved to find that the star had flown out, and was so annoyed with her foster-child that she threatened to send her away. Question: How many rooms did the foster-mother tell the girl not to go in? Answer: three
Context: When that was managed, the old woman took her daughter, put a cap on her, and laid her in the bed in the Queen's place, gave her also the Queen's form and countenance, only she could not restore the lost eye. In the evening, when the King came home and heard that a little son was born to him, he rejoiced with all his heart, and was going at once to his dear wife's bedside to see how she did. Question: Why did the daughter lie on her side in the bed? Answer: to hide her lost eye
Context: The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: How did the hunter and his wife feel about the mysterious females' behavior? Answer: surprised
Context: "Well, since I do happen to be here, I will at least make the attempt," said the prince. " Yes," said the princess, "a jackdaw flew by with a human bone, and let it fall down the chimney. And she picked the loveliest flowers she could find and strewed them over the threshold which they had put to rights again and when the time drew near for the giant's return, the king's son crept under the bed once more. O, I am so fond of you that I had to do it, because I know that is where your heart lies." " Question: Why could the prince and king's daughter not find the heart? Answer: The giant lied.
Context: The young crab set out at once to call on the mortar, his father's old friend, and told him of all that had happened. The mortar now sent to fetch the bee and the chestnut (also the crab's old friends) to consult them about the matter. Question: Why must the young crab be careful? Answer: The monkey was a strong and cunning enemy.
Context: Late one evening he found himself in a big forest, without any idea as to where he might spend the night. But within the chest was another chest, and in that chest still another chest, and so it went, one always smaller than the other, until they were nothing but little boxes. Question: Why did the duke go into the hut? Answer: He must take what he can get.
Context: This transformation rather frightened Jegu, but the brownie bade him have no fears, for he would not do him any harm; indeed, he hoped that Jegu might find him of some use. You know, I am sure, that the korigans who dwell in the White Corn country have declared war on my people, because they say that they are the friends of man. Question: How did Jegu respond to brownie's transformation? Answer: frightened
Context: He got all the finest leather in the town and caused gilded clasps to be made for the shoes, till everyone flocked to buy. One evening Manawyddan visited the furthest of his fields of wheat; and saw that it was ripe. Question: What craft did Manawyddan decide to follow after Rhiannon and Pryderi disappeared? Answer: make shoes
Context: So he went along its length, "for sooner or later I will come to the end of it," thought he. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: How was this crooked one different from the previous crooked one? Answer: It was bigger.
Context: The angry brother at length came to the skeleton of the moose, when he perceived that the track he had been long pursuing did not stop there, so he continued to follow it up till he arrived at the end of the earth, where, for all his trouble, he found only a pair of moccasins. Vexed that he had been outwitted by following a pair of moccasins instead of their owner, who was the object of his pursuit, he bitterly complained, resolving not to give up his revenge, and to be more wary in scrutinizing signs. Question: How will the brother feel when he realizes he has been tricked? Answer: angry
Context: When he found himself safe on the ground, he peeped cautiously over the edge of the cliff to see if there were any seals lying on the rocks below. "You will see presently," answered the stranger, who was attending to his horse's bridle. Question: How did the seal catcher feel when he did not see any seals? Answer: surprised
Context: Now the poor labourer was but a clumsy dancer, and he held back with a shamefaced air. For in a moment he found himself waltzing and whirling, sliding and bowing, as if he had done nothing else but dance all his life. Question: What happened after the Fairy was chosen to be his partner? Answer: He found himself waltzing and whirling, sliding and bowing, as if he had done nothing else but dance all his life.
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: What did Far Rua ask before he left? Answer: what kind of teeth could eat griddle-cakes like that
Context: "The trouble is with my sons, for they cannot bear the smell of a Christian," answered the man. " "No, I only met three cormorants, who were sitting on a piece of drift-wood and croaking," was Isaac's reply. Question: Who were the man's sons? Answer: cormorants
Context: The dog went out the same day hunting upon the banks of a river. When he reached home he threw it down, as is the custom, at the door of the lodge before he entered. Question: What did the wife return with? Answer: the girdle, with nothing tied to it but a stone
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: What did the Weendigo tell the hunter? Answer: The time had now arrived for the Weendigo to take his leave.
Context: It was so pale, the small eyes had closed themselves, and it drew its breath so softly, now and then, with a deep respiration, as if it sighed. The old man sat and rocked the cradle, and the mother sat down on a chair close by him, and looked at her little sick child that drew its breath so deep, and raised its little hand. Question: Why was the man wearing a large horse cloth? Answer: because it keeps him warm
Context: When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens, the wood was beautiful in the summer morning, and the birds were flying about in the branches and the tree tops. At first the girls were filled with wonder when they saw that they had slept in the wood among the raspberry bushes. Question: What did Aina want for breakfast? Answer: a hot cup of coffee and a nice piece of white bread
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Why did the king order a silver chain to be put between the wolf and the child? Answer: so that the child might not go away from the wolf
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: What did Fionn and the chief of the Fenians take from the chase? Answer: one fawn
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: Where did Morraha go the next day? Answer: the brink of the sea
Context: A long time ago, there lived an old poet, a thoroughly kind old poet. As he was sitting one evening in his room, a dreadful storm arose without, and the rain streamed down from heaven. Question: How did the old poet feel during the storm? Answer: warm and comfortable
Context: His surname meant "Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he was still very far removed from being poor. One day, without any reason whatsoever, the thought of death and sickness came to him. Question: What thought came to Sentaro? Answer: death and sickness
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: How did the Magician feel about the Prince's delay? Answer: enraged
Context: There was an old man living in the depth of a forest, with his grandson, whom he had taken in charge when quite an infant. He went into the edge of the woods one day, and saw a rabbit; but not knowing what it was, he ran home and described it to his grandfather. Question: Who lived in the depth of a forest? Answer: an old man
Context: He had not been long underway before it occurred to him to test what the ring could do. So he wished to be dressed in new clothes from head to toe, and no more had he uttered the wish than there he was in them. Question: What was the youth's first wish? Answer: to be dressed in new clothes from head to toe
Context: The waters ceased their roaring, and the river was quiet in direct answer to her prayer. His Majesty was highly pleased, and sent for her to the Palace and rewarded her with the rank of Chinjo-that of Lieutenant-General-to distinguish her. Question: How will Hase-Hime's step-mother feel when she hears of Hase-Hime's success? Answer: angry
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. If White Feather should overcome the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on, until they had all measured speed with him. By a dexterous use of the vine, he gained the first race, struck down his competitor, and cut off his head. Question: Where did the six giants live? Answer: in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood
Context: He had only gone a few steps when he heard some one calling him from behind. On turning back he was much surprised to see that the monster dragon had entirely disappeared and in its place was a strange-looking man, who was bowing most ceremoniously to the ground. Question: How did Hidesato feel when he saw the strange-looking man? Answer: confused
Context: She had been sitting in her arm-chair, telling us a long, beautiful tale; and when it was finished, she said she was tired, and leaned her head back to sleep awhile. She was laid in a black coffin, looking mild and beautiful in the white folds of the shrouded linen, though her eyes were closed; but every wrinkle had vanished, her hair looked white and silvery, and around her mouth lingered a sweet smile. Question: What did Gradmother ask to be done with the hymn book when she died? Answer: she wanted it to be placed under her head
Context: As time passed on, the king's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide. The queen observed this with an angry eye, for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters. Question: What did the queen think only of? Answer: how she might part the prince and princess from each other
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: How did the mother and father feel after the girl asked for the ring and casket? Answer: surprised
Context: Once upon a time, long, long years ago, there lived a well-to-do old couple on a homestead up in Hadeland. And whoever else had business in the woods at that time, noticed that the mountain folk had carried on its tricks with their herd. Question: Who was among the mountain folk? Answer: a maiden
Context: It was sent to the printer, and all the words written upon it were set up in type to make a book,--or rather many hundreds of books,--for many more persons could derive pleasure and profit from a printed book than from the written paper; and if the paper had been sent about the world, it would have been worn out before it had half finished its journey. Question: Why were the words turned into printed books? Answer: so more people could read it
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: Why did the Fairies stop dancing at dawn? Answer: They needed to go home.
Context: Then the king came to see whether Murmur Goose-Egg were lying crushed on the ground, or had merely been badly beaten. There could be no talk of marriage as long as the bridge had not been built. Question: What was Murmur doing when the king arrived? Answer: lay in the bed and snored
Context: In a church-nave a specter sat night by night, and the specter's name was Torre Jeppe. One night three tailors were working at a farmstead in the neighborhood. Question: What was the girl known to be? Answer: brave
Context: One Christmas the two women agreed that they would ride to Christmas night mass, and whichever one of them woke up at the right time was to call the other, for in those days there was no such thing as a watch. It was a piece of this kind that the woman took and put in her pocket, in order to eat it underway. Question: What did the woman do because there was no time to eat? Answer: took a piece of bread from the table along with her
Context: The man set out as early as possible, and had not as yet reached town before he met the old woman with the basket. " I do not fare so badly this way," thought the man, "but when he sets out for himself, then the matter will probably turn out differently." Question: Who will the youth meet when he sets out for himself? Answer: the old woman with the basket
Context: Now, when it was midnight, and every one was asleep, the nurse, who was sitting by the cradle in the nursery and watching there alone, saw the door open, and the true Queen come in. Then she went in perfect silence out at the door, and the nurse next morning asked the watchmen if any one had entered the castle during the night, but they said they had seen no one. Question: Who noticed the door open and the true queen come in? Answer: the nurse
Context: When the monkey heard these words he rejoiced in his inmost heart, for all his fears of being suspected were now at rest. I remember that we once exchanged a rice-dumpling for a persimmon-seed. Question: Why did the monkey rejoice at these words? Answer: All his fears of being suspected were not at rest.
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Where did Fergus Mac Roy and the King sit? Answer: in the part that surrounded the King's palace
Context: When Murmur Goose-Egg had nearly finished threshing, the enemy broke into the land, and war began. Then the king told him to gather people about him, and go to meet the foe, and do battle with him, for he thought the enemy would probably kill him. Question: What happened because Murmur did not want to have the king's people killed? Answer: He would see that he dealt with the enemy himself.
Context: The night was long, but did not appear so to the Snow Man, who stood there enjoying his own reflections, and crackling with the cold. They were the most beautiful ice-flowers any Snow Man could desire, but they concealed the stove. Question: How did the Snow Man call the feeling he felt when he could not see the stove through the window? Answer: stove sick
Context: She then went to look into her mouse-trap, where she found six mice, all alive, and ordered Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor, when, giving each mouse, as it went out, a little tap with her wand, the mouse was that moment turned into a fine horse, which altogether made a very fine set of six horses of a beautiful mouse-colored dapple-gray. Being at a loss for a coachman,

"I will go and see," says Cinderella, "if there is never a rat in the rat-trap-we may make a coachman of him." Question: Why did the godmother need a rat in the rat-trap? Answer: made a coachman out of him
Context: "O, only a little, but my fast has hardly been broken," said the cat. " I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat, and I am thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said she, and she seized the man and ate him up. Question: What will the cat do when she sees the cow? Answer: eat her up
Context: The hue of her hair was like the flower of the iris in summer or like red gold after the burnishing thereof. And after a space Murtough perceived her sitting there, and the sun shining upon her, so that the glittering of the gold and of her golden hair and the bright shining of the green silk of her garments, was like the yellow iris-beds upon the lake on a sunny summer's day. Question: Why did Murtough not know if he loved or hated Sheen? Answer: At one moment all his nature was filled with longing and with love of her, so that it seemed to him that he would give the whole of Ireland for the loan of one hour's space of dalliance with her; but after that he felt a dread of her, because he knew his fate was in her hands, and that she had come to work him ill.
Context: Once he was resting on his bed after dinner, when suddenly two little
knights with plumes in their helmets rode into the room. On their gauntleted hands they held hunting falcons as
large as flies. Question: Who were two inches high and, rode horses about the size of grasshoppers? Answer: two little knights
Context: He left his sister and traveled over the surface of the globe, and then went far down into the earth. The giant, who was a first cousin to Manabozho, and had already heard of the tricks which Dais-Imid had played upon his kinsman, regarded him with a stern look, and, catching him up in his hand, he threw him unceremoniously into the kettle. Question: How did Dais-Imid esape the kettle? Answer: bailed the water to the bottom and leaped out of the kettle
Context: The goddess said: "For hundreds of years my family has been living in the depth of the Eastern Sea. And not long ago, our enemy Pi-Lo himself wanted to deliver an imperial letter in the cave of the Sea of Dungting. Question: Why did the mistress's people withdraw to the distant West? Answer: They did not feel safe from future attacks.
Context: They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in. 'I hope you have been attended to properly,' said he, 'and that you will enjoy your dinner. Question: What did the king order the couple to not do? Answer: lift the lid
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: Why did everyone say the dog ate the child? Answer: There was blood everywhere.
Context: "For although your brothers," he said, "were here, they were too bashful to enter any of our lodges. whereupon the old chief, being now vexed past patience, took his great war-club and tapped this clownish fellow upon the head, which so far subdued him that he sat for some time quite still; when, after a while, he came to himself, the chief upbraided him for his folly, and told him to go out and tell stories to the old women. Question: How did the chief subdue the pretender? Answer: He took his great war-club and tapped this clownish fellow upon the head.
Context: And he went to sleep, and there was heavy sleep on him, and Morraha went in and took hold of the sword that was on the bed at his head. "Well," said the man, "let us sit down together till I tell the story. I would be laughing, and my wife would be asking me what was the reason of my laughing. Question: Why did the man not tell his mother the reason for his laughing? Answer: Women were always asking question.
Context: But while Ribby had been hunting for the doctor--a curious thing had happened to Duchess, who had been left by herself, sitting before the fire, sighing and groaning and feeling very unhappy. She got up and went to the table, and felt inside the pie-dish again with a spoon. Question: How was Duchess feeling while Ribby was hunting for the doctor? Answer: very unhappy
Context: There was a man called Odshedoph, or the Child of Strong Desires, who had a wife and one son. Early in the evening he returned with a deer, and, being weary and athirst, he asked his son, whom he called Strong Desire, to go to the river for some water. Question: Who had a wife and one son? Answer: Odshedoph
Context: One day he sallied forth in search of adventures, for he had the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle. The monster seemed to be asleep, and as it breathed, fire and smoke came out of its nostrils. Question: What laid right across his path? Answer: a huge serpent-dragon
Context: Everybody looked at her feet, and the whole of the way from the church door to the choir it seemed to her as if even the ancient figures on the monuments, in their stiff collars and long black robes, had their eyes fixed on her red shoes. The organ pealed forth solemnly, and the sweet children's voices mingled with that of their old leader; but Karen thought only of her red shoes. Question: Where did Karen wear the shoes? Answer: in the church
Context: There the comrade took the ball of golden twine and flung it against the hill on the other side of the river with such force that it bounded back. Just as he was at the last thread, the witches rushed up, hissing, flung themselves into the water so that the foam splashed high, and snatched at the end of the thread. Question: What would happen if the youth did not take the golden twine away quickly? Answer: The three witches wpuld cross and tear them to pieces.
Context: As soon as the old woman saw him she called out:  "O Fii San! ( answered the old woman, "nothing has happened, only I have found a nice present for you!" Question: How did the man feel about his wife's unusual eagerness? Answer: surprised
Context: He had now arrived at the years of manhood, but he still remained a perfect infant in size. One day, walking about in quest of game, he came to a small lake. Question: What did the Dais-Imid see upon the ice of the lake? Answer: a man of giant height employed killing beavers.
Context: Then she went away, and told the old King that the thing inside the iron stove would not have her, but wanted the Princess. As soon as the day broke the voice from the stove called out, 'It seems to be daylight outside.' Question: What did the king do when the Prince inside the iron stove would not have the miller's daughter, but wanted the Princess? Answer: gave the swineherd's daughter a piece of gold to go to the iron stove instead of the Princess
Context: And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should be well cared for. "Oh, on my honour, it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island; and I will keep him, as he is trained. The Queen was now carrying the twelfth child, and when she was lying-in, the King took me with him to watch the baby. Question: What was the queen carrying? Answer: the twelfth child
Context: A WIDOW had two daughters; one was pretty and industrious, the other was ugly and lazy. Now it happened once that as the spindle was bloody, she dipped it into the well to wash it; but it slipped out of her hand and fell in. Question: Which daughter was made to do all the work around the house? Answer: the pretty one
Context: A long, long time ago, a little boy was living with his sister entirely alone in an uninhabited country, far out in the north-west. As soon as he heard this, he said to his sister, "I am now a young man and very much in want of a companion;" and he asked his sister to make him several pairs of moccasins. Question: What happened after the man received the moccasins? Answer: The man took up his war-club and set out in quest of the distant village.
Context: But amid all the leafy haunts, none drew her steps toward it so often as a forest of pines, on the open shore, called Manitowok, or the Sacred Wood. And whenever they were compelled by stress of weather to make a landing on this part of the coast, they never failed to leave an offering of tobacco, or some other token, to show that they desired to stand well with the proprietors of the fairy ground. Question: Why did Leelinau's parent suspect that some evil spirit had enticed Leelinau? Answer: Leelinau was isolated.
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: What did the father do because he wanted his daughter to be christened? Answer: find a god-father to pay for the child's christening
Context: It was certainly tiresome sometimes climbing over the fallen trees, and getting caught in the branches, and waging war with the juniper bushes and the midges, but what did that matter? The wood had been on fire once, and now raspberry bushes had grown up, and there were raspberry bushes and raspberry bushes as far as the eye could see. Question: Where did Lisa and Aina find raspberries? Answer: a large raspberry wood
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: Why will Morraha never put his hand to card-playing with strangers again? Answer: He does not want to go through so much trouble again.
Context: As soon as the first buds of spring appeared, and the delicious fragrance of the young year began to sweeten the air, his father, with the help of his younger brothers, built for Wunzh the customary little lodge. After he had become too weak to walk about, and confined himself strictly to the lodge, he recalled these thoughts, and turning them in his mind, he wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to his father and family, and to all others of his fellow-creatures. Question: What did Wunzh do to prepare himself for the rite? Answer: cleared his heart of every evil thought
Context: As soon as Sentaro got down from the bird's back, the crane folded up of its own accord and flew into his pocket. Everything was, of course, quite strange, and different from his own land. Question: Why did Sentaro decide to stay at the island? Answer: The land and the people seemed prosperous.
Context: When the bundle was laid before him, Maidwa opened one of the bags which had been given to him. The chief himself talked with Maidwa of his adventures, congratulated him on his good fortune, and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning. Question: Why did the foolish fellow want to kill Maidwa? Answer: He thought to have got this chief's daughter for a wife.
Context: He again exacted a promise of secresy, and went back to his tree. The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. Question: What did the hunter hear upon returning? Answer: his son laughing and making a noise
Context: Why, then,' said I to him--thinking he did not know the right road home--very civilly, because why? By my word, it would be no joke to shoot this way, to oblige a drunken blackguard that I picked up off a could stone in a bog.' ' Hold your tongue, Dan,' says he, 'and mind your own business, and don't be interfering with the business of other people.' ' Question: How will Daniel feel when the eagle complains about flying for so long? Answer: annoyed
Context: When he awoke he was smarting with pain on every inch of his huge bulk, for the men had cut away his hide with its glorious white hair and carried it with them to a distant ship. But when they saw him raise his head and groan and tremble they knew he still lived, and one of them said to his comrades:  "The wolves were right. Question: Why did the gulls each give the King of the Polar Bears as many feathers as they could spare? Answer: repay his kindness
Context: He had seen the Toad in the grass, and stooped down and seized the little creature anything but gently. The sunbeam took it up; the sunbeam carried the jewel from the head of the toad. Question: What happened when the Stork seized the Toad? Answer: It died.
Context: The next day the Magician again commanded Prince Milan to be led before him. 'Now, you genius,' said the Magician, 'look at these beauties three times, and then tell us which is the Princess Hyacinthia.' Question: How did the Magician feel when the Prince recognized Hyacinthia? Answer: amazed
Context: "Why, you are a splendid workman," said the king, "but tell me, how much do you really eat at once," he continued, "for I am sure you are hungry?" If he were to have enough porridge, they would have to take twelve tons of meal to make it. Question: How much meal would be needed to give Murmur enough porridge? Answer: twelve tons
Context: In a moment the Princess Hyacinthia had changed herself, the Prince, and his charger into a thick wood where a thousand paths and roads crossed each other. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: Who did Hyacinthia change the Prince into? Answer: a monk
Context: Said the other: "In your district there lives a certain Wang, who was formerly superintendent of the granaries, and at that time caused the death of an officer. The King of the Nether World cannot come to a decision in the case, and therefore has asked the Lord of the Great Mountain to settle it. Question: Why was the man sent to Dung's district? Answer: The man had been sent out by the Judge of the Dead to fetch him.
Context: Later on Li Dsing and his three sons, Gintscha, Mutscha and Notscha, aided King Wu of the Dschou dynasty to destroy the tyrant Dschou-Sin. But the Great One carried him into his cave, healed his wound and gave him three goblets of the wine of the gods to drink, and three fire-dates to eat. Question: How did Notscha feel when he grew another arm? Answer: scared
Context: Her mother, hearing the unusual burst of melody, came downstairs to see what musical guest had arrived; but when she discovered it was her own little daughter who was playing so divinely she had an attack of palpitation of the heart (to which she was subject) and sat down upon a sofa until it should pass away. But the mother came to him softly with her finger on her lips and whispered: "Don't interrupt her, John. Question: How did Bessie's parents feel when they saw her play the piano? Answer: surprised
Context: But the bird came to the resolution next day never again to fetch wood: he had, he said, been their slave long enough, now they must change about and make a new arrangement So in spite of all the mouse and the sausage could say, the bird was determined to have his own way. So they drew lots to settle it, and it fell so that the sausage was to fetch wood, the mouse was to cook, and the bird was to draw water. Question: Why did the bird come to the resolution to never fetch wood again? Answer: He had been their slave long enough, now they much change about and make a new arrangement.
Context: The magician groaned again and again, and said, rather peevishly, "No, these are not the dreams." Early the next morning Maidwa set out to fulfill his promise; and in the afternoon, when the sun hangs toward home, he heard the shouts of a great many people. Question: How would the magician know if Maidwa was successful? Answer: when the magician heard the ka-kak cries of the hawk
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: What happened after Far Rua laid a finger where Finn's strength depended? Answer: Far Rua gave one loud groan and fell down at once with terror and weakness.
Context: "I am going," she continued, addressing her mother as they left the lodge, "I am going from one who has watched my infancy and guarded my youth; who has given me medicine when I was sick, and prepared my food when I was well. So saying, she sped faster than any could follow her to the margin of the fairy wood, and in a moment was lost to sight. With torches they hastened to the wood, and although they lit up every dark recess and leafy gloom, their search was in vain. Question: Why were Leelinau's parents worried? Answer: Leelinau was nowhere to be seen.
Context: The gifts of tobacco, after this, came in even more freely than they had at first; and as each brought his bundle to the lodge of Wassamo, he asked for the usual length of life, for success as a hunter, and for a plentiful supply of food. Wassamo told him that it could not be; that only spirits could exert the necessary power, and that there were no such spirits at hand. Question: What did Wassamo reply he would do with the people's requests? Answer: mention each of their requests to his father-in-law
Context: One of the sons sat at the rudder, the second at the bow, and the third in the middle. When the boat was filled, they sailed home again to Udrost, and the sons cleaned the fish, and laid them on the stands. Question: What happened because the sea was so full of fish? Answer: They could not even put out an anchor.
Context: It was a little small shop just the right size for Dolls--Lucinda and Jane Doll-cook always bought their groceries at Ginger and Pickles. Ginger and Pickles sold red spotty pocket-handkerchiefs at a penny three farthings. Question: Where did Lucdina and Jane Doll-cook buy their groceries? Answer: Ginger and Pickles
Context: When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens, the wood was beautiful in the summer morning, and the birds were flying about in the branches and the tree tops. At first the girls were filled with wonder when they saw that they had slept in the wood among the raspberry bushes. Question: Why did Lisa think she was still dreaming? Answer: They woke up in the middle of the forest.
Context: Ribby in the meantime had received Duchess's answer, and as soon as she was sure that the little dog would come--she popped HER pie into the oven. And I have taken out all the bones; because Duchess did nearly choke herself with a fish-bone last time I gave a party. Question: Where did Ribby put her pie? Answer: into the lower oven with the stiff door
Context: And tell me what is that that you have hidden in your sleeve-show it to me at once." "Why," he said in great surprise, "this is the mirror that I brought as a gift to your mother when I went up to the capital many years ago! But still the father could not understand the simplicity of his daughter's character in not knowing that what she saw reflected in the mirror was in reality her own face, and not that of her mother. Question: Why was the father confused by the daughter's explanation for the mirror? Answer: He could not understand the simplicity of his daughter's character in not knowing that what she saw reflected in the mirror was her own face.
Context: "I am getting along finely," the Black Sheep would answer, "for not one sheep in the pasture has so much wool as I have grown already." So the boy ran to the house and begged his mother for a handful of salt, and then he came back to the bars, where the Black Sheep licked it out of his hand. Question: What did the Black Sheep ask the little boy to bring? Answer: salt
Context: As he opened his eyes, in a dreamy way, he saw the kettle near him. The fire flickered, and made light and shadow; but nowhere was Wassamo to be seen. Question: What made the cousin believe Wassamo would appear? Answer: The fire flickered and made light and shadow.
Context: When he had made his way far into the Fjoll, he saw a girl driving sheep and goats across a mountain-top. But when he reached the top of the mountain, the girl had vanished, as well as her flock, and all he saw was a great pack of bears. Question: Who did Per Gynt meet on the way back? Answer: a mountain fox
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." So one stood forward, with sword and pot-lid, and made a cut at Tom. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " The wolf licked his chops, as if he was saying, "Wouldn't I enjoy a breakfast off a couple of yez!" Question: What happened after Tom said he quartered of the princess? Answer: There was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family.
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: Why didn't Earl St. Clair agree with Earl Gregory about the Elfin Knight? Answer: He knew travelers would disappear after crossing the moor.
Context: 'Dan,' said the man in the moon, taking a pinch of snuff, when I was done, 'you must not stay here.' ' Faith, and with your leave,' says I, 'I'll not let go the grip, and the more you bids me the more I won't let go--so I will.' ' We'll see how that is to be,' says he; and back he went, giving the door such a great bang after him (for it was plain he was huffed), that I thought the moon and all would fall down with it. Question: Why did the man go back to the moon? Answer: to get a cleaver
Context: Yet when she had lain down and put out the light, she saw a man come in and cast himself down in a corner. But first you must promise me that you will never speak to your mother alone; but only when others are present. Question: What did the maiden request from the bear? Answer: She wanted so very much to see her parents and sisters again.
Context: All of a sudden the silence was broken by a low wail, answered by another from the other side of the pool, as the mother rose up from her den and came towards them, rage flashing from her horrible yellow eyes. ' He had promised his sweetheart,' he said, 'that he would bring back enough meat for her father's house to feast on for three days, and though they could not eat the little Bunyip, her brothers and sisters should have it to play with.' Question: Why did the captor decide to keep the cub of the Bunyip? Answer: Because he promised his sweetheart to bring back enough meat for her father's house to feast on for three days.
Context: So while some were barring the gates, the young devil climbed up and took down the iron flail that had the handstaff and booltheen both made out of red-hot iron. And when he got home to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running and racing as to see himself and the flail. Question: What happened after one fellow tried to seize the flail? Answer: Tom gave him such a welt of it on the side of his head that he broke off one of his horns, and made him roar like a divel as he was.
Context: So they wagered bushel against bushel as to which one of them could blow the highest note. " Well, if I don't, the horn will burst when I blow it," was Aspenclog's answer. Question: Why did the evil one begin to get frightened? Answer: Aspenclog was very strong.
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " So the fellows gathered round Tom, and the bad man aggravated him till he told them he didn't care a pinch of snuff for the whole bilin' of 'em. says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." Question: Why did the fellows gather around Tom? Answer: They wanted to fight Tom.
Context: "Baker," said he, "I am hurt in the foot; pray spread some dough over the place." But the miller refused, thinking the wolf must be meaning harm to some one. Question: How did the miller feel after the wolf threatened him? Answer: afraid
Context: Then he packed all my dolls into the box, and fastened it on my back, and I felt as if I were spinning round in a circle. The puppets had become distinguished actors--at least, so they said themselves--and I was their director. Question: what did the lecturer pack into the box? Answer: the dolls
Context: An old man had an only son, named Iadilla, who had come to that age which is thought to be most proper to make the long and final fast which is to secure through life a guardian genius or spirit. To accomplish his wish, he thought it necessary that the young Iadilla should fast a much longer time than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom, whose fame he coveted. Question: What did the old man promise Iadilla after twelve days of fasting? Answer: Iadilla would receive food and the blessing of his father.
Context: Hidesato felt very sorry for the Dragon King on hearing his story, and readily promised to do what he could to help him. So Hidesato was conducted to the palace of the Dragon King, under the bridge. Question: Who waited upon the Dragon King and his guest? Answer: dainty goldfishes
Context: So the youth served out his three years, and did better than they had expected him to do. Now when his master was to go to do his buying, he set out as early as possible in the morning. " Question: How long did the youth serve? Answer: three years
Context: I am so afraid that the whales would swallow us up, and the big dogs bite us. Men red as copper galloped over the immense green prairies and shot their arrows at the buffaloes, who turned against them with their sharp horns. Question: Where did Little Lasse and the dream-boy go after Little Lasse did not want to land? Answer: America
Context: From the first he has hated me,' but outwardly she showed nothing. And when the king asked her what news there was in the town she only answered:  'You have ridden far; eat first, and drink, for you must be hungry and thirsty, and then I will tell you my news.' Question: Why did the brother have to stay where he was? Answer: He would be seized by the royal guards if he tried to desert his post.
Context: He crawled to the pond pointed out to him, bathed well in it. He went hopping joyfully towards the young man who had so helped him, and kneeling down at his feet, said:  "I cannot express my thanks for all you have done for me! Question: Who did the man turn out to be? Answer: a fairy
Context: The spring, with all its blossoms and its delicate newness of life, came among them; the Indians assembled to celebrate their vernal feast from all the country round. The village was stirred to its very heart by their loud lamentings; and, after a struggle of pity, they decided to give the young man's life to the parents. Question: How will Wassamo's parents feel towards Netawis? Answer: vengeful
Context: Hurrying on day after day they at last came out upon the shore of the North-Eastern Sea. There was nothing to be seen as far as the horizon--not a sign of any island. Question: Where did they at last come out upon? Answer: the North-Eastern Sea
Context: THEN she took something else off a clothes-horse--"That isn't my pinny?" TIGGY-WINKLE'S nose went sniffle, sniffle, snuffle, and her eyes went twinkle, twinkle; and she fetched another hot iron from the fire. Question: Who does the damask table-cloth belong it? Answer: Jenny Wren
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." Indeed, to tell the truth, she was supposed to be a fairy herself. Now, it so happened that Oonagh had a sister named Granua living opposite to them, on the very top of Cullamore, which I have mentioned already. Question: Who was Oonagh's sister? Answer: Granua
Context: And the grave of Murtough was made wide and deep, and there they laid the Queen beside him, two in the one grave, near the north side of the little church that is in Tuilen. Now, when the burial was finished, and the clerics were reciting over his grave the deeds of the King, and were making prayers for Murtough's soul that it might be brought out of hell, for Cairnech showed great care for this, they saw coming towards them across the sward a lonely woman, star-bright and beautiful, and a kirtle of priceless silk upon her, and a green mantle with its fringes of silver thread flowing to the ground. Question: Where did the clerics carry the corpse to? Answer: Tuilen
Context: He proceeded toward the lodge, met the female as had been foretold to him, and became an elk. Soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners, he ventured to lay his head on her lap, and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber. Question: Who was the woman that was foretold to White Feather? Answer: the sixth giant
Context: It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill, for Walter got a seat on the load, while Caro ran barking beside them. Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with all his might while they were going through the wood. Question: Why did Walter start beating his drum? Answer: Jonas said wolves were scared of a drum.
Context: The king and queen and the princess, too, stood in the hall-way, and wondered what sort of a fellow this was, who could herd hares without losing a single one. But while he lay in all comfort beside a strawberry patch, they sent out the chamber-maid from the castle to him, and she was to find out how he managed to herd the king's hares. Question: Why was the chamber-maid sent out to Esben? Answer: to find out how he managed to herd the king's hares
Context: At last the venerable dormouse himself undertook it, for the very good reason that no one else would. That is the reason why it is now one of the tiniest creatures upon the earth. In this business he was very expert, and he had a new bird-skin coat made, which was prettier than the one he had worn before. Question: What did the boy learn when the sun escaped his snare? Answer: He could not control nature.
Context: Once the schoolmaster of Etnedal was staying in the mountains to fish. One Sunday morning, as he was lying there reading, it seemed as though he could hear church bells; sometimes they sounded faintly, as though from a great distance; at other times the sound was clear, as though carried by the wind. Question: Why did the schoolmaster always carry one book or another along with him? Answer: He was very fond of reading.
Context: The mother stork sat in it with her four little ones, who were stretching out their heads with their pointed black bills that had not yet turned red. That he might not appear quite idle while standing sentry, he had drawn one leg up under him, as is the manner of storks. Question: will the pointed black bills stay black forever? Answer: no, they will turn red someday
Context: The lad carefully observed the command, and lay with his face covered, calmly awaiting the approach of the spirit which was to decide his good or evil fortune for all the days of his life. To these glowing words of promise and glory the boy never replied, but he lay without the least sign of discontent or murmuring until the ninth day, when he addressed his father as follows:  "My father, my dreams forbode evil. Question: How did Iadilla respond to the glowing words of promise and glory? Answer: He never replied, but he laid without the least sign of discontent or murmuring.
Context: So when the latter stepped out, she had to listen to all sorts of abuse from her step-sister, as was to be expected. She was much pleased and ran up at once to pick it; but that very moment it disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away. Question: Why did the queen's daughter pay no attention to the king's daughter? Answer: She thought only of how she might find the flower of which the old woman had spoken.
Context: When the guardian's servant heard how large a sum it was, he was tempted to win so wealthy a man for a son-in-law, and he married him to his daughter. I said to you: 'If you will follow me into the West, the land of Blessed Repose, I will pay you your wages in yellow gold. Question: What did Laotsze give the servant instead of money? Answer: gave him a life-giving talisman to eat
Context: One evening the student came into the shop through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself; he had no one to send, and therefore he came himself. The huckster's wife was a woman who could do more than merely nod, for she usually had plenty to say for herself. Question: Does the huckster's wife usually talk a lot or a little? Answer: a lot
Context: Tom Kitten was quite unable to jump when walking upon his hind legs in trousers. He came up the rockery by degrees, breaking the ferns, and shedding buttons right and left. Question: What happened to Tom Kitten's clothes when he jumped on the wall? Answer: His buttons were shredded.
Context: Prince Yamato Take at once offered to go and bring the newly arisen rebels into subjection. When the time came for the Prince to start, the King gave him a spear called the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree (the handle was probably made from the wood of the holly tree), and ordered him to set out to subjugate the Eastern Barbarians as the Ainu were then called. Question: Why could the King not bear to have Yamato Take go out of his sight? Answer: The King loved the Prince dearly.
Context: Whenever guests came, his wife laid the table for the old folk in the bake-house, and on each occasion so much money was left lying there, that before long they did not know what to do with it all. Once he wanted to go to town, and since it was fall, and the ground already frozen, the horse had first to be shod. Question: How did the dragoon's wife feel about her husband's ability as a farrier? Answer: dissatisfied
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived in the little back room. His father, it is true, was of the opinion that there might be other work that would suit him better, for whoever was to herd hares would have to be quick and spry, and not a sleepy-head. Question: Where did the man live? Answer: the little back room
Context: Your kindness and bravery of heart have restored me to my former shape. The magician, to the deep regret of Maidwa, never once alluded to the Red Swan in all their conferences. Question: What did the magician bestow upon Maidwa? Answer: ample presents of wampum, fur, robes, and other costly things
Context: Now they wanted to go home to the father of the king's son; but he would not hear of the Master Girl's going afoot, since he did not think this fitting for either of them. " No, do not do so, for when you get home to the castle you will forget me, I know that positively," said the Master Girl. " Question: Why did the king's son think he would not forget the Master Girl? Answer: They had passed through so many hardships together and they love each other so dearly.
Context: They began to make shields, and fashioned them after the shape of the shields they had seen. We will buy the leather ready dressed, and will make the shoes from it.' Question: What craft did Manawyddan want to follow next after his group decided to not make shields anymore? Answer: make shoes
Context: 'With that, my dear, he took up the goose by the two wings--criss o' my cross an you,' says he, markin' her to grace with the blessed sign at the same minute. Away she went down there, right in front of you, along the side o' the cliff, and flew over Saint Kavin's bed (that is, where Saint Kavin's bed is now, but was not then, by reason as it wasn't made, but was contrived after by Saint Kavin himself, that the women might leave him alone). Question: Why did Saint Kavin throw the goose in the air? Answer: to help her
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: Why didn't the other three and Fionn come up with the giant or the girl? Answer: a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between them
Context: When he arrived home he found his wife and daughter mourning for him, for they thought that he had been eaten by lions; but he comforted them, saying that while following a wounded antelope he had missed his way and had wandered for a long time before he had found the path again. And Gopani-Kufa smiled, and took the Mirror and said to it:  'Sipao, Sipao, I want a town as great as that of Insato, the King of Pita; and I wish to be chief over it!' Question: What does Gopani-Kufa wish for? Answer: a town as great as that of Insato and become a chief over it
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: Why was the young man's father delighted? Answer: He saw how big the pile of gold in the strong iron chest was becoming.
Context: Then they set forth, but the news of their coming ran swifter still. In the place where they were wont to see cattle, and herds, and dwellings, they beheld neither house nor beast, nor man nor smoke. Question: How did Rhiannon, Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi feel when they were separated from each other? Answer: scared
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: How did the young princes feel being in the Flower Fairy's court? Answer: happy
Context: But, to his astonishment, he found that some change must have passed over him. He was still more aghast when he caught sight of himself in a large mirror that hung on the wall, and saw that he also no longer bore the likeness of a man, but was transformed into a nice, hairy, brown seal. Question: What happened after the seal catcher turned to his companion? Answer: He had  assumed the form of a seal.
Context: During this period of retirement he thought much of the men who had harmed him, and remembered the way they had made the great "bang!" When the moon fell away from the sky and the sun came to make the icebergs glitter with the gorgeous tintings of the rainbow, two of the polar bears arrived at the king's cavern to ask his advice about the hunting season. Question: What did the other polar bear do when it saw the King of the Polar Bears's great body covered with feathers instead of hair? Answer: began to laugh
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: What did the Abbot find when he came to his abbey? Answer: a wondrous change
Context: Maidwa thought that the old man did not know that he was standing near the door. Maidwa was very hungry, and seeing the limited scale of the old man's housekeeping, he thought his chance for a supper was very slight. The old man had promised him something very delicate, and he seemed likely to keep his word. Question: What did the old man put into the pot? Answer: one grain of corn
Context: But as he did so a tablet suddenly appeared before his eyes on which stood the following lines:      O'er kingdoms six Tsin Schi Huang his army led,     To ope my grave and find my humble bed;     He steals my shoes and takes my staff away     To reach Schakiu--and his last earthly day! Tsin Schi Huang was much alarmed, and had the grave closed again. Question: How will Emperor Tsin Schi Huang feel after he reads from the tablet? Answer: alarmed
Context: I've got no daughter-in-law, and nobody has been married lately, that I ever heard of.' Now this was exactly what the landlady, who was very curious, wanted to find out; but she put on a look of great alarm, and exclaimed:  'Oh, dear! Question: How did the landlady feel after the old man denied the rumors? Answer: alarmed
Context: One of the sons sat at the rudder, the second at the bow, and the third in the middle. When the boat was filled, they sailed home again to Udrost, and the sons cleaned the fish, and laid them on the stands. Question: Why was Isaac unable to catch any fish? Answer: He had taken along his own fishing-tackle.
Context: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep. And then he knew that the one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years, and he realised how heavy the punishment had been which the Wee Folk had laid upon him. Question: What did the poor man find out after he came home? Answer: The one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years.
Context: The wily horse-dealer thought that he saw a chance of driving a good bargain. The gold that the stranger gave him was not the gold that was in use at the time, but was fashioned into Unicorns, and Bonnet-pieces, and other ancient coins. Question: How will Canonbie Dick feel when the stranger does not give him gold? Answer: surprised
Context: But amid all the leafy haunts, none drew her steps toward it so often as a forest of pines, on the open shore, called Manitowok, or the Sacred Wood. And whenever they were compelled by stress of weather to make a landing on this part of the coast, they never failed to leave an offering of tobacco, or some other token, to show that they desired to stand well with the proprietors of the fairy ground. Question: Why was Manitowok seldom visited by Indians? Answer: The Indians feared to fall under the influence of its mischievous inhabitants.
Context: The dragon was asleep, which was the reason the fisherboy brought the pearl to the surface without being harmed. The treasure which the daughter of the Dragon-King has in charge is made up of thousands and millions of such jewels. Question: What will the emperor do after he finds out about the dragon-king's treasure? Answer: The emperor will announce a large reward for the man who is competent to go to the dragon-castle as his messenger.
Context: The King's son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings. The sledge was shaped like a great golden swan, and between the swan's wings lay the little Princess herself. Question: Where did the bride come from? Answer: Finland
Context: The devil obediently thrust both hands into the split, and tore and clawed with all his might; but suddenly Murmur Goose-Egg knocked out the wedge, and there the devil was caught in a vice, while Murmur belabored his back with the ax. Besides that, he had to promise to build a bridge over the sound, on which one could go back and forth at all seasons of the year. Question: What did Murmur want to devil to do in exchange for being let go? Answer: build a bridge over the sound, on which one could go back and forth at all seasons of the year
Context: But the Wolf had seen the Fox beginning to grow greasy, and he knew now what had happened, and he determined to have his revenge. Then, keeping at a safe distance, he said to his companion, "There is writing on that smithy door, which I cannot read, as my eyes are failing; do thou try to read it, for perchance it may be something it were good for us to know." Question: How did the Wolf trick the Fox to stand near the horse? Answer: The wolf asked him to read the writing on the smithy door.
Context: There the old worm flounders about," said Notscha, "and does not care how hard he is beaten! The dragon then swore that he would punish Li Dsing in a terrible manner, and disappeared in a flash of lightning. Question: What did the Dragon-King promise to Notscha? Answer: promised Notscha that he would not complain of him
Context: She entered her lodge and laid off her mantle, which was entirely composed of the scalps of women. Before folding it, she shook it several times, and at every shake the scalps uttered loud shouts of laughter, in which the old hag joined. Question: What happened after the witch shook her mantle several times? Answer: The scalps uttered loud shouts of laughter.
Context: Happily Jonas heard his cry of distress, for Walter was quite near the mill now, and he ran and helped him up. When Walter beat his drum, Caro crept out, and when Walter ran away, Caro ran after him, as he so often does when Walter wants to romp and play. Question: What did Caro find in the kiln? Answer: leg of the ram
Context: "I deserved the first prize, and not the second," said the snail. " I, on the other hand, made running the business of my life, and have become a cripple in the service. Question: What does the snail ask for instead of second prize? Answer: first prize
Context: There is a lone moor in Scotland, which, in times past, was said to be haunted by an Elfin Knight. And although men might search every inch of the ground, no trace of him would be found, and with a thrill of horror the searching party would go home again, shaking their heads and whispering to one another that he had fallen into the hands of the dreaded Knight. Question: Why did wild animals live in the moor? Answer: They found that they never were disturbed by mortal huntsmen.
Context: THERE were once upon a time a King and a Queen who lived happily together, and they had twelve children, all of whom were boys. Then he ordered twelve coffins to be made, and filled them with shavings, and placed a little pillow in each. Question: Why must all of her twelve brothers die if their thirteenth child is a girl? Answer: she may be very rich and the kingdom hers alone
Context: To tell you more I am not permitted, but go on as you have begun and you will not be disappointed. Early in the morning the old man ordered his magic kettle to prepare breakfast, so that his guest might eat before leaving. Question: Who will tell Maidwa the manner in which he must proceed to accomplish his journey? Answer: the one Maidwa will see after one of the old man's fellow old men
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. Question: Why was the son obliged to go to the mountain? Answer: to take care of the cattle
Context: The goblin caught up the wonderful book, which lay on the table, and popped it into his red cap, which he held tightly with both hands. Yet, when the fire was extinguished and the goblin again began to reflect, he hesitated, and said at last, "I must divide myself between the two; I cannot quite give up the huckster, because of the jam." Question: What did the goblin take with him? Answer: the wonderful book
Context: When they reached home, and the maiden had gone to bed, all went as usual: a man came in and cast himself down in a corner of the room. But in the night, when she heard him sleeping soundly, she stood up and lighted the candle. Question: What did the maiden see when she lit the candle? Answer: the handsomest prince one might wish to see
Context: In a lonely forest, there once lived a man and his wife, who had a son. As he advanced rapidly, she ran in, and taking the hand of her son, a boy of three or four years old, she led him out. Question: How will the wife feel seeing the giant man approach her? Answer: afraid
Context: Maidwa was borne gently along but a little way above their heads; and as they followed him, the rush and hum of the people was like the dead beating of the surges upon a lake shore after a storm. In a moment Maidwa came past with rustling wings, and as he flew by, giving the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp, his limbs extended and quivered in an agony, the scalp adhered, and Maidwa, in his own person, walked into the lodge and sat down, feeling perfectly at home. Question: How will Maidwa feel when the scalp is placed on his head? Answer: pain
Context: The old servant Katoda was rewarded with the highest promotion in his master's service. Hase-Hime lived to a good old age, and all said that she was the wisest, most devout, and most beautiful mistress that had ever reigned in Prince Toyonari's ancient house. Question: Where is there said to be a tapestry sewn from Princess Hase? Answer: Buddhist temples of Kioto
Context: "Now you can go to the devil, and fetch the tribute from him," said the king. There was no one home but his grandmother, and she said she had never yet heard anything about a tribute, and that he was to come back some other time. And he soon caught up to him, for he ran over sticks and stones, and sometimes flew in between; while Murmur had to stick to the highway with his heavy knapsack. Question: Where will Murmur take the tribute? Answer: the royal castle
Context: So Timmy Willie said good-bye to his new friends, and hid in the hamper with a crumb of cake and a withered cabbage leaf; and after much jolting, he was set down safely in his own garden. Question: What happened to Timmy after he got in the hamper? Answer: He was set down safely in his own garden.
Context: "Tell me what it is," said the seal catcher, "and I will do it, if it lies within my power." "I have no skill in the art of healing," said the seal catcher, astonished at the forbearance of these strange creatures, whom he had so unwittingly wronged; "but I will bind up the wound to the best of my power, and I am only sorry that it was my hands that caused it." Question: Where did the stranger lead the seal catcher? Answer: in a smaller room
Context: But if he cooks gold here, I wonder what he cooks inside, there?" May God be your aid, for it is a fine service you have chosen!" Question: How did the maiden tell the king's son to go about it? Answer: turn around the shovel, and work with the handle
Context: The husband listened to the dreadful tale, but he could not believe his gentle daughter guilty of such an evil act. Yet he remembered having noticed that his daughter stayed much in her room of late and kept herself away from every one, even when visitors came to the house. Question: Why did the father think the step-mother's story was believable? Answer: noticed that his daughter stayed much in her room of late and kept herself away from every one
Context: Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good to eat; and, as for seasons, he asked for whatever fruit he wanted whenever he wanted it, and saw that he got it; so to him Moti's guess was like a miracle, and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence, for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box. Of course when the king marvelled and praised Moti's wisdom, everybody else did so too; and, whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen, Moti took the horse and entered the king's service. Question: How did the Afghans feel after they lost their horse? Answer: disappointed
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: How will Aggo feel if his daughter is taken away by the king of the buffalos? Answer: angry
Context: Before many days had passed he reached the Southern Island, and then slowly but surely made his way to the head-quarters of the chiefs Kumaso and Takeru. Ototachibana then brought him her comb, which he put in his black tresses, and then adorned himself with strings of strange jewels. When he had finished his unusual toilet, Ototachibana brought him her mirror. Question: Why did Yamato put on the robe? Answer: to disguise himself as a woman
Context: After she had gone a little while longer, she met Reynard the fox, who was peeping out of the edge of the forest. I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said she, and seized the fox and ate him up too. Question: What was the name of the fox? Answer: Reynard
Context: In the morning, Wunzh's father came to his lodge with some slight refreshments, saying:  "My son, you have fasted long enough. Mindful of his own instructions, he tore from him his beautiful garments and plume. Very confident was Wunzh, all the time, that his friend would again come to life. Wunzh partook sparingly of the meal that had been prepared for him, and once more mingled in the cares and sports of the family. The summer was drawing toward a close, when one day, after a long absence in hunting, Wunzh invited his father to follow him to the quiet and lonesome spot of his former fast. Question: How will Wunzh feel about losing his friend? Answer: sad
Context: Hase-Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke, and promised to do all that she was told. There is a proverb which says "As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred," and so Hase-Hime grew up as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess, though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss of her mother. Question: How did Princess Terute treat Hase-Hime? Answer: unkindly
Context: Unluckily he had a hasty temper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Together they took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town. Question: Who had a hasty temper? Answer: the king
Context: Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, but visited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest he should be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and shepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport. Question: Why did the bride need reels of cotton? Answer: The dressmaker was coming in to-morrow.
Context: Now they wanted to go home to the father of the king's son; but he would not hear of the Master Girl's going afoot, since he did not think this fitting for either of them. " No, do not do so, for when you get home to the castle you will forget me, I know that positively," said the Master Girl. " Question: Why did the king's son want the Master Girl to wait until he fetched the seven horses? Answer: He did not think going afoot fitting for either of them.
Context: Sentaro, in his wish to escape from the country of Perpetual Life, recollected Jofuku, who had helped him before when he was wishing to escape from death. Once more the bird grew and grew till it was large enough for him to mount it. Question: What happened after the crane headed towards Japan? Answer: Sentaro had regretted all he had left behind.
Context: But Murmur Goose-Egg hurried back to the castle and asked for the reward the king had promised him. If he has not come down yet, then he, together with the knapsack, is floating between heaven and earth to this very day. Question: How did Murmur feel when the king did not keep his promise? Answer: upset
Context: "Because they have not treated me with the respect due to a stranger," replied the boy. He placed himself under the tuition of Fergus Mac Roy, who, each day, grew more and more proud of his pupil, for while still a boy his fame was extending over Ulla. Question: How did Fergus Mac Roy feel about Setanta? Answer: proud
Context: When the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all. The youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner, and sang and danced, as he always did. Question: What did the youth do as he made his way to the mother in the corner? Answer: sang and danced
Context: He turned round with a start to see the little woman with the green dress and scarlet stockings, who had remonstrated with him for lifting the turf the year before, standing by his side. "The divots which you took from the roof of my house have grown once more," she said, "and once more it is covered with grass. Question: How did the small woman punish the poor man? Answer: She trapped him for seven years.
Context: Once upon a time there was a master mariner who had the most unheard of good fortune in all that he undertook; none had such splendid cargoes, and none earned so much money as he did, for everything seemed to come to him. Thus he sailed for many years with cargoes of lumber, and even went as far as China, and earned money like hay. Question: What made the master mariner have such good luck? Answer: He had made a bargain with the devil.
Context: She complained bitterly to him, and said she would never have thought it possible that the weather could affect one so. How he had managed to get it, neither she nor the troll could guess. Question: How did the princess feel about her thrashing? Answer: upset
Context: Wassamo felt himself moved, he knew not how, and placed upon a couch. One spoke to him and said: "Stranger, awake, and take something wherewith to refresh yourself." I pile them up, and blow them about, and do whatever I will with them. Question: Who spoke to Wassamo first? Answer: the Old Spirit-man
Context: The had ridden many miles, and at last they came to a river, where they beheld a little fish lying gasping on the sand, and the horse said:  'Do you see that little fish? Then she will tell you that she would like to ride a little way, and you must help her to mount. Question: Where was Princess Bella-Flor's castle? Answer: the middle of a very thick wood
Context: Once upon a time there was a girl who was to go to the wood and drive the cattle home; but she did not find the herd, and losing her way instead, came to a great hill. Straightway people arrived who wanted to dance with the girl; but she would hear nothing of it. Question: What did the people want to do with the girl? Answer: dance with the girl
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: What did Iris beg from the Fairy? Answer: give her beauty back to her
Context: And the neighing of horses and the clanking of swords were heard close at hand. 'That is all, thank you,' said Jack; and the soldiers disappeared inside the cornet. Question: How did Jack get his table back? Answer: Jack ordered the officer to take the table from him.
Context: The farmer's trouble and patience was rewarded, for one fine day on going his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug for that purpose. When he reached the house the farmer said to his wife:  "I have at last caught the bad badger. Question: What did the farmer want to do with the badger? Answer: make him into soup
Context: Pinkel was much pleased at the thought of his adventure, and without more ado he borrowed a little boat which lay moored to the shore, and rowed over to the island at once. Scarcely had he done this when the witch called her daughter and bade her lift the pot off the fire and put the stew into a dish, as it had been cooking quite long enough and she was hungry. Question: How did Pinkel feel about the thought of his adventure? Answer: pleased
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: Why did Finn want Far Rua to lay a finger where his strength depended? Answer: He now knew that his most powerful and bitterest enemy was completely at his mercy.
Context: There was an old man living in the depth of a forest, with his grandson, whom he had taken in charge when quite an infant. He went into the edge of the woods one day, and saw a rabbit; but not knowing what it was, he ran home and described it to his grandfather. Question: Why did the child have no parents, brothers, or sisters? Answer: They had all been destroyed by six large giants.
Context: "That's a true picture of our poetryless time, that I see before me now," thought the young man. You cannot invent anything, and yet you want to be a poet by Easter." Question: What does the woman order the young man to do? Answer: write down his thought
Context: The king enjoined it upon the others in the lodge as a special edict, on pain of instant death, to give to Aggo's daughter every thing that she wanted, and to be careful not to displease her. The king himself went out hunting to obtain the most dainty meats, both of animals and wild fowl, to pleasure her palate; and he treated her every morning to a ride upon one of the royal buffalos, who was so gentle in his motions as not even to disturb a single one of the tresses of the beautiful hair of Aggo's daughter as she paced along. Question: Why did the king's subjects treat Aggo's daughter well? Answer: They did not want the pain of instant death.
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: What happened because the child grew greedy? Answer: He devoured everything they had.
Context: But presently, to his great joy, his guide approached him, and said, "Now you are at liberty to return home to your wife and children. asked the seal catcher eagerly, overjoyed at the prospect of being restored safely to the upper world, and to his family. Question: How did the seal catcher feel after the stranger told him that he could leave? Answer: overjoyed
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: Why did the cabin-boy say the captain and quartermasters would not have wives any longer? Answer: They were killed.
Context: I see that you can no longer live without me, and I thank you. At times he had to crawl, at others he had to stoop, for the way was very narrow. But when it grew better, he walked in advance, and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off. And then he suddenly heard a clear, beautiful voice behind him say: "Now the road is good! Question: What had the six large rats turned into? Answer: six white horses
Context: "You can stand on the runner of my sledge," said the man, "for I have a horse that covers a mile in twelve steps." He could not tell exactly where it was, but when they began to hurry on again, he thought that he spied a skull on a pole. Question: What could the man's horse do? Answer: cover a mile in twelve steps
Context: Karen was now old enough to be confirmed; she received some new clothes, and she was also to have some new shoes. But the old lady knew nothing of their being red, for she would never have allowed Karen to be confirmed in red shoes, as she was now to be. Question: Why didn't the old lady know the shoes were red? Answer: because she could not see very well
Context: If you had only held out until the end of the year, I would have been delivered. I have a step-mother who has cast a spell on me, so that by day I am a bear, and at night a human being. Question: Why would the maiden not find the road to the castle? Answer: There is no road that leads there.
Context: The hare humbled himself before this great fairy Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto, whom many in that part of the land worshiped as a god. I am quite sure that the Princess, whom your brothers have gone to seek, will refuse to be the bride of any of them. Question: Why did the hare think the Princess would prefer Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto? Answer: He was kind.
Context: "Well, they belong to the same master," retorted the yard-dog. " I know every one here in the house, and I know there was once a time when I did not lie out here in the cold, fastened to a chain. Question: When was the Snow Man born? Answer: yesterday
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: What happened after a careful search was made? Answer: No trace of Thomas of Ercildoune was found.
Context: She went into the smithy, and the first thing she did was to take the horse-shoe in both hands and bend it straight. "You have a great deal of strength in your fingers," said her husband, and he looked at her. Question: How was the wife able to bend the horse-shoe in her own hands? Answer: She had a great deal of strength in her fingers.
Context: Little Miss Muffet had never eaten curds and whey before, and did not know how they tasted; but she was very hungry, so she took the dish and went into the orchard. The girl had never seen such an enormous and hideous-looking spider before, and she was so frightened that she gave a scream and tipped backward off the tuffet, spilling the curds and whey all over her dress as she did so. Question: What did Miss Muffet spill as she tipped backward off the tuffet? Answer: the curds and whey
Context: One evening the student came into the shop through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself; he had no one to send, and therefore he came himself. The huckster's wife was a woman who could do more than merely nod, for she usually had plenty to say for herself. Question: What did the student buy? Answer: candles and cheese
Context: Meanwhile he had a word of advice for his son-in-law Wassamo. " My son," said he, "some of these Manitoes that I have asked to come here are of a very wicked temper, and I warn you especially of that Island Spirit who wished to marry my daughter. Question: Which manito wished to marry the Old Spirit's daughter? Answer: Island Spirit
Context: The boar was pleased at the flattery and determined to help the monkey. "Why the mother will be in a tremendous scare, and before your master and mistress know what to do, you must run after me and rescue the child and take it home safely to its parents, and you will see that when the butcher comes they won't have the heart to sell you." Question: What did the baby do every morning? Answer: lie by the door
Context: There was a man called Odshedoph, or the Child of Strong Desires, who had a wife and one son. Ah, my son," said the father, at last, "if you are afraid to go to the river, you will never kill the Red Head." The next day he asked his mother to dress the skin of the deer, and to make it into moccasins for him, while he busied himself in preparing a bow and arrows. Question: Why was Strong Desire afraid of the dark? Answer: He could not see.
Context: From that day forward the princess gave her father no peace, and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady. Finally, one day, when she again brought up the matter, the king cried: "I can see you will end by having your own way about this, even though it be entirely against my will. Question: What would the court lady become when she marries the king? Answer: queen of the whole country
Context: ONCE on a time the cock and the hen went to the nut mountain, and they agreed beforehand that whichever of them should find a nut was to divide it with the other. So the cock ran as fast as he could to the brook, and said, "Brook, give me some water, the hen is up yonder choking with a big nut stuck in her throat." Question: What happened when the hen tried to eat the kernal all alone? Answer: The kernel was such a fat one that she could not swallow it down, and it stuck in her throat.
Context: I took a bar of iron, and put it in the fire till it was red, and I said to the hag, "He will be howling at first, but will fall asleep presently, and do not wake him until he has slept as much as he wants. I was well satisfied, and I had no liking for delay to get myself free from the hag, and I took them on board the ship, and the child I had myself. Question: Why did the man turn the iron bar on the old hag's son? Answer: to punish the son
Context: When they were through she gave Esben a whistle which had the power that if he blew into one end, whatever he wished scattered was scattered to all the winds, and when he blew into the other, all came together again. And if the whistle passed from his possession, it would return as soon as he wished it back. Question: What would happen if the whistle passed from Esben's possession? Answer: It would return as soon as he wished it back.
Context: The crocodile, who was very simple-minded, and who hadn't the least idea that the hare intended to play a trick on him, agreed to do what the hare asked. He said:  "Wait a little while I go back into the sea and call my company together!" Question: What did the hare do while the crocodile gathered the other crocodiles? Answer: waited patiently on the shore
Context: A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself, and he vowed that he would work her ill. When he was admitted to his presence, he knelt down and touched the ground with his forehead, and the king bade him stand up and tell wherefore he had come. Question: Where did the brother go to after he heard about his sister? Answer: to the palace
Context: One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window. The old toad was down under the marsh, decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves, to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay. Question: How will Thumbelina feel when she is taken by the old toad? Answer: scared
Context: In fact, although it was such a small shop it sold nearly everything--except a few things that you want in a hurry--like bootlaces, hair-pins and mutton chops. Question: Who was a terrier? Answer: Pickles
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: What did Earl St. Clair do before they rode to the moor? Answer: went out to the meadow and plucked a leaf of clover, which he bound on his arm with a silken scarf
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: The marriage took place the following month, and a few days later the old man died quite suddenly. Now Jegu had everything to see to himself, and somehow it did not seem so easy as when the farmer was alive. Question: Who did the brownie bring to get some help in taking care of the farm? Answer: his friends, dwarfs
Context: Very sorrowful was Manawyddan, but Pryderi was stout of heart, and bade him be of good cheer. Let us go now to seek Rhiannon, and the lands where she dwells.' Question: Why wasn't Pryderi very sorrowful like Manawyddan? Answer: He knew a way out of his trouble.
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I am come," she said, "because I am beloved of Murtough, son of Erc, King of Erin, and I come to seek him here." Question: What did Sheen wish for? Answer: take her to his house
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. It was the little crab's pleasure to go out day by day and sit in the sun and put out his long eyes in the same way as a snail puts out its horn, and watch the persimmons ripening to perfection. Question: How will the monkey feel when he sees the crab's persimmon tree? Answer: jealous
Context: exclaimed suddenly a child that stood crying at the door and knocking for admittance, while the rain poured down, and the wind made all the windows rattle. " There stood a little boy, quite naked, and the water ran down from his long golden hair. Question: Who came to the poet's door? Answer: a child
Context: The girl soon grew to be a woman, but the boy increased in stature very slowly. At last, although so very small of stature, he became a great hunter, and all that he shot he brought home and shared with his sister; and whenever he entered the lodge, a light beamed about his head and filled the place with a strange splendor. Question: What did Dais-Imid do every day? Answer: hunt
Context: And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and he saw the young man coming. And he drew up his boat on the shore, and asked him would he play cards. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. He rose in the morning, and took the bridle that was in the window and went out and shook it, and Brown Allree came and put her head in it. Question: How will Morraha feel after hearing the young man's demands? Answer: overwhelmed
Context: When he awoke it was near midnight, and the moon had risen on the Crag. At last they stopped, and, with shrieks of elfin laughter, led the prettiest and daintiest of their companions up to him, and cried, "Tread a measure, tread a measure, Oh, Man! Question: What did the Fairies do when the poor man tried to escape? Answer: accompanied him, encircling him in a magic ring, out of which he could in no way go
Context: The man, who feared to shake hands with the giant, drew a red-hot bar of iron from the fire and handed it to him. He seized it firmly, and pressed it so hard that the molten iron ran down between his fingers. Question: Why did the man draw a red-hot bar of iron from the fire and hand it to the giant? Answer: The man feared to shake hands with the giant.
Context: By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived, when he was not travelling with his father and mother. They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tails for the baby's mother, who felt at last that she was safe and at peace. Question: What did the girl do at night? Answer: lie awake and wonder where he was
Context: THEY got amongst flower-pots, and frames and tubs; Peter heard noises worse than ever, his eyes were as big as lolly-pops! He was a step or two in front of his cousin, when he suddenly stopped. Question: How long did the cat sit at the top of the basket? Answer: for five hours
Context: He had not been long underway before it occurred to him to test what the ring could do. So he wished to be dressed in new clothes from head to toe, and no more had he uttered the wish than there he was in them. Question: Why did the youth want to play a trick on his father? Answer: He was none too friendly to him while he was still home.
Context: There was once a little boy whose name was Lars, and because he was so little he was called Little Lasse; he was a brave little man, for he sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat. Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rose high above his cap, and he picked seventeen large shells, the longest and straightest he could find. Question: What did Lars sail around the world with? Answer: a pea-shell boat
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: Why was it impossible for the devil to sow dissension between the couple? Answer: they think so much of each other
Context: The heavens were clear, and the sun shone out as brightly to Strong Desire as on the first morning when he had put forth his little head from the door of his father's lodge. As they approached the shore, Strong Desire saw that the ribs of the sorcerer's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes, whose heads pointed outward to guard him from his enemies. Question: How will Red Head feel marrying Strong Desire? Answer: lucky
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: How will the husband feel after his wife tries to get what she wants? Answer: tired and ashamed
Context: "Yes, indeed," said the youth, and thrust his hand into the pocket in which he had placed it. Then, when he entered the stable, he gave the goat such a blow between the horns with it that he staggered, and asked: "At what time does the princess ride to her dearest to-night?" Question: What did the youth discover after he thrust his hand into the pocket? Answer: There was no ball in it.
Context: "I should like to have that fellow," said the peasant to himself. " The man with the sheep was quite ready, and the bargain was quickly made. Question: How did the peasant reason that the sheep is more profitable than a cow? Answer: plenty of grass for the sheep and in the winter, they can keep in the room with them
Context: He forgot his errand, he forgot his home, and he forgot everything that had ever happened to him. Time passed by, and one night he and a band of merry companions set out for a long journey through the air. Question: What happened to Farquhar when he started dancing? Answer: He forgot his errand, he forgot his home, he forgot everything that had ever happened to him, he only knew that he wanted to remain with the Fairies all the rest of his life.
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: How was Aspenclog able to gather so much wood? Answer: He was very strong.
Context: The youth questioned Kung regarding his name and family, and the latter told him his whole history. Said the youth: "If you do not consider me altogether too unworthy and stupid, I should like to be your pupil myself." Question: Why did the youth pity Kung greatly? Answer: told him his whole history
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Why did Tom set off to Dublin? Answer: He wanted to make the King of Dublin's daughter laugh.
Context: The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and that the dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge. Question: How did the dog feel when the old man found all the coins? Answer: pride
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: Why did the man say nothing about his wife? Answer: She took his child.
Context: "Look there," he said, and pointed with a twisted finger, to a leathern purse, or sporran, which was hanging to one of the posts of a wooden bedstead in the corner. He was almost frightened out of his wits by seeing a tiny shrivelled face crowned by a red pirnie, looking over the edge of the sporran. Question: How did Farquar feel when he saw the ancient man's father? Answer: frightened
Context: Scarcely had she finished speaking when she saw beside her a little silver tray with a gilt coffee-pot, two cups of rare porcelain, a sugar basin of fine crystal, silver sugar tongs, and some good fresh white bread. 'Yes, indeed we have,' said both the girls, 'but tell us...' and they wanted to ask who the old man was, but were afraid to. Question: How will the girls feel after they hear a voice from the bushes? Answer: surprised
Context: 'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given, and to whom they belong. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story, and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see. Question: What did the judge tell the muleteer? Answer: he had proved himself mean and ungrateful for the help that had been given him
Context: 'More wood,' cried Guddhi, and they all ran and gathered wood and heaped it on the flames, which leaped and roared and sputtered. And the fishes gathered round it as they had done on the top of the cliff, and found the flames as hot as before, and that fire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever. Question: What happened after the fish tribe rekindled the fire? Answer: A blast of wind swept down from the hills and blew the fire out towards them.
Context: "I wonder why grandmother looks at the withered flower in the old book that way? Why, when grandmother's tears fall upon the rose, and she is looking at it, the rose revives, and fills the room with its fragrance; the walls vanish as in a mist, and all around her is the glorious green wood, where in summer the sunlight streams through thick foliage; and grandmother, why she is young again, a charming maiden, fresh as a rose, with round, rosy cheeks, fair, bright ringlets, and a figure pretty and graceful; but the eyes, those mild, saintly eyes, are the same,--they have been left to grandmother. Question: Why does Grandmother smile at the rose? Answer: It reminds her of someone she once knew
Context: "He is, in reality, no longer a bear," said one; "nor can he justly be called a bird. But he is half bird and half bear, and so unfitted to remain our king." Question: Who challenged the King of the Polar Bears to a fight to be the next king? Answer: the great Woof
Context: and the girl answered, between her sobs:  'When I came in and saw the pack-saddle over my head, I thought how dreadful it would be if it fell and killed me.' The old woman struck her hands together: 'Ah, to think of it! Question: Why was the young woman crying? Answer: She was scared after the pack-saddle almost fell on her.
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: What happened in the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland? Answer: The country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching.
Context: The wicked woman had carefully marked the poisoned bottle, but on coming into the room she had grown nervous, and pouring out the wine hurriedly had unconsciously given the poisoned cup to her own child. The attendants rushed for the doctor, but nothing could save the child-he died within the hour in his mother's arms. Question: What happened because Princess Terute grew nervous? Answer: She poured out the wine hurriedly and unconsciously gave the poisoned cup to her own child.
Context: I have appeared in person to escort the bride, hence everything must be done solemnly and in order. Question: How did the river-bride's parents feel when they said farewell to their daughter? Answer: sad
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: How did the son feel when he fastened the goat-skin around his waist? Answer: grand
Context: As soon as the first buds of spring appeared, and the delicious fragrance of the young year began to sweeten the air, his father, with the help of his younger brothers, built for Wunzh the customary little lodge. After he had become too weak to walk about, and confined himself strictly to the lodge, he recalled these thoughts, and turning them in his mind, he wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to his father and family, and to all others of his fellow-creatures. Question: What happened as soon as the first buds of spring appeared? Answer: Wunzh's father, with the help of his younger brothers, built the customary little lodge where he would not be disturbed during the solemn rite.
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: How did Thomas feel after he heard the boy's message? Answer: surprised
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: How will the younger brother feel after he finds out that he is the heir? Answer: very pleased
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. He, therefore, in his greedy nature, felt very envious of the crab's nice dumpling, and he proposed an exchange. Question: Why did the monkey propose an exchange? Answer: He felt envious of the crab's nice dumpling.
Context: It happened on the same day, that his elder brother, Owasso, was fishing in his magic canoe, a considerable distance out upon the lake. It touched him the more that it died away at the close, into a long-drawn howl, like that of the wolf. Question: What did Owasso hear that made him go to shore? Answer: the cries of a child
Context: In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and he held his court in the palace of Emain Macha. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called the children of a king. Question: Who asked Conchubar's mother for her hand in marriage? Answer: Fergus
Context: Then she began to say that the schoolmaster was such a strong and able man, and finally, that she and her daughter would like to have him for priest, and whether he would not stay and succeed the old father. When the schoolmaster heard that, he said that even though he had the necessary scholarship, he doubted very much that he had the right vocation, and since this was a most important matter for him and for them, it would be unwise to act too hurriedly, so he would ask for a year to think it over. Question: Why did the schoolmaster ask for a year to think it over? Answer: It would be unwise to act too hurriedly.
Context: There is a lone moor in Scotland, which, in times past, was said to be haunted by an Elfin Knight. And although men might search every inch of the ground, no trace of him would be found, and with a thrill of horror the searching party would go home again, shaking their heads and whispering to one another that he had fallen into the hands of the dreaded Knight. Question: What did the men do after someone disappeared from the moor? Answer: search every inch of the ground
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: What did Redhead say the wolf used to do? Answer: used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle
Context: Time went on, and the hungry spring came, and the Fox and the Wolf had their larder bare, for food was scarce, and the weather was bleak and cold. The Fox agreed--having made up his mind how he would act--and the two set out to the place where the Keg had been hidden. Question: What did the Wolf want to do after food was scarce? Answer: dig up the Keg of Butter
Context: When the hare had finished his story, the man was full of pity towards him, and said:  "I am very sorry for all you have suffered, but remember, it was only the consequence of the deceit you practiced on the crocodiles." I beg you to show me how I may cure my sore body and make the fur grow again." Question: What would the kaba flowers do to help the hare? Answer: the pollen will cause your fur to grow again
Context: Per Gynt once more lit the fire, called his dogs and locked the herdsman's hut. At the same moment the dogs sprang upon Kjostol Aabakken, and threw him head over heels into the hearth, so that the ashes and sparks flew about. Question: Who were frightening the dairy maids? Answer: four strangers
Context: When he got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in his feet, so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him. He now hastened to the temples of Ise, where you will remember that he prayed before undertaking this long expedition. Question: What did Yamato's aunt wear to thank Amaterasu? Answer: her most magnificent robes
Context: When they came ashore, Murmur sent to the king, and had him told to have the sword fetched; but though the king sent four horses, they could not move it from the spot. But when Murmur asked for more work, he told him to travel to his troll's castle, where no one dared go, and to remain there until he had built a bridge across the sound, so that people could cross. cried the king, when he saw that Murmur Goose-Egg was in the best of health. Question: Why did the king cry about his daughter? Answer: He had promised his daughter to Murmur.
Context: Then Thomas took courage, and looked up; and lo, they were riding through a beautiful orchard, where apples and pears, dates and figs and wine-berries grew in great abundance. And his tongue was so parched and dry, and he felt so faint, that he longed for some of the fruit to restore him. Question: What did the Queen of Fairies do when Thomas stretched out his hand to pluck some fruit? Answer: turned in her saddle and forbade him
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: How will the joiant feel when Tom spares him? Answer: thankful
Context: Wassamo was living with his parents on the shore of a large bay, far out in the north-east. The cousin, being the elder, attended to the nets, and they encamped near by, using the bark of the birch for a lodge to shelter them through the night. Question: Who was living with his parents? Answer: Wassamo
Context: Cinderella brought the trap to her, and in it there were three huge rats. The fairy made choice of one of the three which had the largest beard, and, having touched him with her wand, he was turned into a fat, jolly coachman, who had the smartest whiskers eyes ever beheld. Question: What did Cinderella find on the trap? Answer: three huge rats
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: What happened when the Prince went out hunting? Answer: He soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood.
Context: After him came a great throng
of footmen and horsemen, several hundred in all. Shortly
after came a man clad in yellow, wearing a king's crown, who climbed
on an empty couch and seated himself there. Question: What will happen after nearly all of the vermin were killed? Answer: The king will arrive.
Context: nan Question: What will Starkard bring for Bale? Answer: salmon
Context: To this sacred spot Leelinau had made her way at an early age, gathering strange flowers and plants, which she would bring home to her parents, and relate to them all the haps and mishaps that had occurred in her rambles. If her father remained abroad in the hunt later than usual, and it was feared that he had been overwhelmed by the tempest, or had met with some other mischance, Leelinau offered up her prayers for safety at the Manitowok. Question: What did Leelinau do when she wished to solicit her spirits to procure pleasant dreams? Answer: repaired the Manitowok
Context: When it came time to sail, the cabin-boy would not go along for anything in the world; and all the captain's coaxing, and all his promises were useless, nothing would tempt him to go. At last they asked him whether he were afraid, because fall was at hand, and said he would rather hide behind the stove, hanging to mother's apron strings. Question: What did the cabin-boy want in exchange for coming? Answer: three cords of birch-wood were to be brought, full measure, and that on a certain day he was to have command, just as though he himself were captain
Context: "O Conn the Hundred-Fighter, son of Felimy, the righteous son of Tuthal the legitimate, O King of the Kings of Erin, a wronged and disinherited youth, possessing nowhere one rood of his patrimony, a wanderer and an outlaw, a hunter of the wildernesses and mountains, claims hospitality of thee, illustrious prince, on the eve of the great festival of Samhain." An attendant took his weapons from the youth and hung them on the wall with the rest, and Finn sat down between the King of Ireland and his only son. Question: How will Finn feel being warmly received? Answer: honored
Context: When the king's youngest son had put an end to the giant in this way, he rode back on his wolf to the giant's home. Then the prince went into the hill to get his own bride, and they all rode home together. Question: How did the king feel when his sons and their brides returned? Answer: joy
Context: The king urged and pressed him, first amiably, then in anger; but the duke remained obstinate and would have nothing to say. Then the king fell into a rage, which is not very surprising, for now he realized that this fine duke was not what he purported to be, and he therefore ordered him to be hung, and hung on the spot. Question: What happened when the king saw what had become of the duke? Answer: ordered him to be hung
Context: Long, long ago, far, far away on the other side of the world, some young men left the camp where they lived to get some food for their wives and children. The sun was hot, but they liked heat, and as they went they ran races and tried who could hurl his spear the farthest, or was cleverest in throwing a strange weapon called a boomerang, which always returns to the thrower. Question: Why did they like the heat? Answer: They ran races and tried who could hurl his spear the farthest or was cleverest in throwing a strange weapon called a boomerang.
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. But he liked to sing and to dance, and that is what he did all day long, and far into the night as well. Question: What happened because the son was so lazy and slow? Answer: There was not a single blessed useful thing he would do.
Context: Long, long ago in Kyoto, the people of the city were terrified by accounts of a dreadful ogre, who, it was said, haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by. The missing victims were never seen again, so it was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal, who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also. Question: When was it said the ogre haunted the Gate of Rashomon? Answer: at twilight
Context: The shop was crammed with customers, and there were crowds of mice upon the biscuit canisters. Sally Henny Penny gets rather flustered when she tries to count out change, and she insists on being paid cash; but she is quite harmless. Question: How did Sally Henny Penny feel when she tried to count out change? Answer: flustered
Context: "Because they have not treated me with the respect due to a stranger," replied the boy. He placed himself under the tuition of Fergus Mac Roy, who, each day, grew more and more proud of his pupil, for while still a boy his fame was extending over Ulla. Question: Why was Fergus Mac Roy proud of Setanta? Answer: Setanta had courage.
Context: While the assembled bears stood looking with fear and wonder at their fallen champion the sky became darkened. An hundred gulls flew down from above and dripped upon the king's body a skin covered with pure white hair that glittered in the sun like silver. Question: What did the polar bears do when the king's body was covered with his hide? Answer: bowed their shaggy heads in homage to the mighty King of the Polar Bears
Context: You may be sure no other body went near it; and when the early risers were passing next morning they found two long clefts in the stone where it was, after burning itself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. Well, I suppose before they were married Gilla got some man like Pat Mara of Tomenine to larn him the "principles of politeness," fluxions, gunnery, and fortifications, decimal fractions, practice, and the rule-of-three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up a conversation with the royal family. Question: How did the Danes feel when they heard the story of the flail? Answer: frightened
Context: Then Esben began to tell how the king had come to him, and about the white mare who was grazing on the moor, "and since he insisted on having the whistle he had to--he had to--well, with all due respect, I have to make up plenty of stories in order to fill the cauldron," said Esben. The king and the queen were of the opinion that it would be best for Esben to receive the princess and half the kingdom; there did not seem anything else to do. Question: What happened because Esben filled up the cauldron? Answer: Esben received the princess and half the kingdom.
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. Let us follow him, and see from what part of the world he cometh." Question: What did Sir Gregory do after he decided to follow the horseman? Answer: put spurs to his horse and galloped off in the direction which the mysterious stranger had taken
Context: Suddenly he heard a hideous cry from the stern of the boat, and felt certain that it was the drang, who was singing his death-song. Then he prayed God to guard his wife and children, for he thought his last hour had come. Question: How did Isaac feel when he thought his last hour had come? Answer: scared
Context: With this he wandered out into the crab settlement and crept about as slyly as possible near the crab's house and tried to hear the neighbors' gossip round about. He wanted to find out what the crabs were saying about their chief's death, for the old crab had been the chief of the tribe. Question: Why did the monkey go to the crab settlement? Answer: He wanted to find out what the crabs were saying about their chief's death.
Context: Some one had stood a tin can upon a stone to catch the water--but the water was already running over, for the can was no bigger than an egg-cup! The grass was short and green, and there were clothes-props cut from bracken stems, with lines of plaited rushes, and a heap of tiny clothes pins--but no pocket-handkerchiefs! Question: What were some things that were found in the grass? Answer: clothes-props cust from bracket stems, with lines of plaited rushes, and heap of tiny clothes pis
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: What did the Weendigo give the hunter and his wife? Answer: two arrows
Context: And never having learned to control herself, she allowed this wicked thought to grow into the awful desire of taking her step-daughter's life. All his toys of warriors and heroes were spread out and she was telling him wonderful stories about each of them. Question: Why did Princess Terute put poison in some wine? Answer: She wanted to poison Hase-Hime.
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Choosing the best-looking horse amongst them he went up to it and said:  'Is this horse for sale? Question: How will the two Afghans feel after Moti stole the horse? Answer: furious
Context: When all was ready, the dwarfs, in new green suits, came bustling in, very happy and merry, and took their seats at the table. But in a moment they all sprang up with a cry, and ran away screaming, for Barbaik had placed pans of hot coals under their feet, and all their poor little toes were burnt. Question: What did the dwarfs bring with them? Answer: large pots of water
Context: he thought; 'but she is so grand, and lives in a castle, whilst I have only a box with four-and-twenty others. When the night came all the other tin-soldiers went into their box, and the people of the house went to bed. Question: Where did the Dancer live? Answer: the castle
Context: So when they had reached the gentleman's house, and the peasant had given him the pig, he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so. And at night, when the peasant was fast asleep, the old woman came and took away his rooster, and put another in its place. Question: How did the peasant feel about his bargain? Answer: content
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: What was special about Yamato? Answer: remarkable strength
Context: His wife, the Princess Ototachibana, had accompanied him, and he bade her bring him the robe his aunt the priestess of Ise had given him, and to help him attire himself as a woman. Ototachibana then brought him her comb, which he put in his black tresses, and then adorned himself with strings of strange jewels. Question: How did Yamato disguise himself? Answer: as a woman
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: Why did Hyacinthia give advice to the Prince? Answer: Her father was wicked.
Context: At that she began to cry again, and told the king's son all that had befallen her since the death of her mother. I will manage all that,' said the king's son, and swinging himself to a lower branch, he bade his slave go quickly into the town, and bring back with him four strong men and a curtained litter. Question: Why did the prince pretend he was unwell? Answer: He was hiding the girl in the litter.
Context: She shut herself up in the nut-cellar while Mr. Jackson pulled out the Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, which troubled both the king and the queen greatly. Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent's hearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting into his litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten all along the road. Question: Where did the prince and the girl return to? Answer: the king's palace
Context: When I saw I was in a man's shape I said I would take the child back to his father and mother, as I knew the grief they were in after him. I knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me, and I said I would cure him if I got a good reward. Question: What did the old hag say she would give the man if he could cure his son? Answer: eight young lads and three young women
Context: The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: What happened after the hunter gave the two mysterious females their portion of the hunt? Answer: The mysterious females accepted it, but still appeared dissatisfied, and went to the wife's portion and tore off more.
Context: When he awoke, he sighed long thinking over his strange experience. And the following day he sent off fifteen hundred soldiers to stand guard by the Lake of the Maidens. Question: Why did the princess's advisor want soldiers who have died? Answer: Living men cannot fight against invisible spirits.
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: Who was captain of all the Fians? Answer: Gaul mac Morna
Context: It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill, for Walter got a seat on the load, while Caro ran barking beside them. Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with all his might while they were going through the wood. Question: Where did Walter and Jonas go? Answer: the wood
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: What did the two Afghans offer for sale? Answer: horses
Context: Putting her hand out, she took from the side of the pillow a square wooden box tied up with a silken cord and tassels. "When you were still a little child your father went up to the capital and brought me back as a present this treasure; it is called a mirror. Question: What happened to the mother after she gave the daughter the mirror? Answer: She passed away.
Context: And it seemed to her as though she knew all the people who were there. It was quite evident that they were trolls, the people from underground, and therefore he discharged his gun over the roof. Question: How did the dog get people to follow him? Answer: made his way to Melbustad, and howled and barked in the most lamentable manner
Context: "Faith," said Finn, "beautiful; and how are you, Oonagh--and how did you sport your figure during my absence, my bilberry?" "Why, avourneen," said Finn, putting in his answer in the proper way, "never the thing but the purest of love and affection for yourself. Finn spent two or three happy days with Oonagh, and felt himself very comfortable considering the dread he had of Far Rua. Question: Why did Finn say he would sooner or later meet Far Rua? Answer: His thumb told him so.
Context: Another time he sent her to fetch water, and when she came to the spring, she sat down and lamented, saying: 'As flows the water even so flows my heart with longing for my mother.' Thus she again remained so long away that the Sunball asked her: 'Eh, Letiko, why have you remained so long away?' Question: Why did Letiko stay long near the water? Answer: because her petticoat is too long and hinders her in walking
Context: One sunshiny morning, when there were just two or three promising clouds rolling moistly about the sky, Aggo prepared to go out a-fishing; but before he left the lodge he reminded her of her strange and industrious lover, whom she had never seen. With this excellent advice, Aggo hopped off in high spirits; but he had scarcely reached the fishing-ground when he heard a voice singing, at a distance:      Man with the leg tied up,     Man with the leg tied up,         Broken hip--hip--             Hipped. Question: What did Aggo do before he left the lodge? Answer: reminded his daughter of her strange and industrious lover
Context: There the old worm flounders about," said Notscha, "and does not care how hard he is beaten! The dragon then swore that he would punish Li Dsing in a terrible manner, and disappeared in a flash of lightning. Question: What did the Dragon-King do before he disappeared in a flash of lightning? Answer: swore that would punish Li Dsing in a terrible manner
Context: Now when the girl had grown old enough to make distinctions, and had acquired some sense, it chanced that her foster-mother once wished to take a journey. " When her foster-mother came home, she was much grieved to find that the star had flown out, and was so annoyed with her foster-child that she threatened to send her away. Question: Why was the girl allowed to remain? Answer: The girl pleaded and cried.
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: What did the girl need to do if she needed food, clothes, or a house? Answer: tell the ring
Context: The gulls flew in immense numbers around him, and were ready to devour him. Owasso, in his flight over the lake, saw him lying on his back in the boat, taking a nap, which was quite natural, as the day was very soft and balmy. Question: What did Owasso see in his flight over the lake? Answer: the Manito lying on his back in the boat, taking a nap
Context: cried Earl St. Clair eagerly, "ere he taketh on him the Elfin shape? "There is something that thou couldst do, Sir Earl," whispered the Goblin, "but to essay it were a desperate attempt. Question: Why didn't Earl St. Clair fear the Elfin Knight's spell? Answer: He bore the Sign of One Who was stronger than he.
Context: And out of stones and sods of earth she fashioned three battalions, and one of the battalions she placed at one side of the house, and the other at the further side beyond it, and one encircling the rest southward along the hollow windings of the glen. And thus were these battalions, one of them all made of men stark-naked and their colour blue, and the second with heads of goats with shaggy beards and horned; but the third, more terrible than they, for these were headless men, fighting like human beings, yet finished at the neck; and the sound of heavy shouting as of hosts and multitudes came from the first and the second battalion, but from the third no sound save only that they waved their arms and struck their weapons together, and smote the ground with their feet impatiently. And Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle-shout, and he rose impetuously from off his bed, but the wine overcame him, and his strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor. Suddenly he screamed out of his sleep and stirred himself, for he heard the crash of falling timbers and the noise of the magic hosts, and he smelled the strong smell of fire in the palace. Question: What will happen when Murtough and the hosts wake up? Answer: They will be terrified by the battalions.
Context: And now came the rogue the third time to the door and knocked. " And he put up his paws against the window, and when they saw that they were white, all seemed right, and they opened the door; and when he was inside they saw it was the wolf, and they were terrified and tried to hide themselves. Question: How did the little goats respond after seeing the wolf? Answer: terrified
Context: Unluckily he had a hasty temper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Together they took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town. Question: How did the sister feel after she was forced out of town? Answer: sad
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: What happened whenever the hunter used the arrows? Answer: The arrows never failed to bring down whatever they were aimed at.
Context: "In the course of your journey you will come to a large grape-vine lying across your path. You will next come to something that looks like bear's fat, of which you are so fond. Question: What did Kwasynd do when he saw the enchanted grape-vine? Answer: tasted the fruit
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: What were Fergus Mac Roy and the King's attention on? Answer: the game
Context: Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Indeed, they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro. Question: What was the sorrow of the old man and his wife? Answer: They had no child.
Context: The waters ceased their roaring, and the river was quiet in direct answer to her prayer. His Majesty was highly pleased, and sent for her to the Palace and rewarded her with the rank of Chinjo-that of Lieutenant-General-to distinguish her. Question: Why was Hase-Hime give the rank of Chinjo? Answer: She was rewarded for stopping the water.
Context: "This is a wonderful place," said the goblin; "I never expected such a thing. From that time forward, the whole shop, from the cash-box down to the pine-wood logs, formed their opinions from that of the cask. They all had such confidence in him and treated him with so much respect that when, in the evening, the huckster read the criticisms on theatricals and art, they fancied it must all come from the cask. Question: Why did the goblin keep living with the huckster? Answer: because he had jam and butter
Context: They then took an affectionate leave of each other, Wassamo enjoining it upon his cousin, at risk of his life, to not look back when he had once started to return. Accordingly he at once dispatched his pipe-bearer and confidential aid to summon various Spirits of his acquaintance, and set the time for them to come. Question: What made the village not doubt the cousin's word in anything? Answer: The cousin told the truth in the past.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: How did Aspenclog find out the issue with the mill? Answer: took a candle and made a search
Context: I cannot creep into myself, however much I might wish to do so; I have to go on bearing roses. But I once saw how a rose was laid in the mistress's hymn-book, and how one of my roses found a place in the bosom of a young beautiful girl, and how another was kissed by the lips of a child in the glad joy of life. Question: Why does the rose tree feel blessed? Answer: because its roses have touched so many lives
Context: The worst of it was that the shadows of the tress were becoming so long in the evening sunlight, the birds were beginning to fly home, and the day was closing in. At last they reached a great plain overgrown with bushes, and when they looked around them, they saw, as much as they could in the darkness, that they were among the same beautiful raspberry bushes from which they had picked their baskets and their aprons full. Question: Where did the girls wander to after they got lost? Answer: a great plain overgrown with bushes
Context: Li Dsing grew very much excited, told his wife what had happened, and both began to weep. Notscha, whom his master's magic had rendered invisible, threw the dragon to the ground with his armlet, and began to pitch into him. Question: What did Notscha's master do when Nostcha came to him for help? Answer: told him to prevent the Dragon-King from accusing him in Heaven
Context: 'I will lie here and rest under this tree,' he said to his attendants. ' Away they went, and the young man fell asleep, and slept long. Question: Why did the king's son believe it was raining? Answer: The girl was crying.
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: Who had two sons? Answer: a rich old man
Context: The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmother sent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch. She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such a dinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn of the bracket bull. Question: What did the stepmother tell the third daughter to do? Answer: not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch
Context: The thieves, finding the body gone, realize that yet another person must know their secret, and set out to track him down. Realizing that the dead man must have been the thieves' victim, the thief asks Baba Mustafa to lead the way to the house where the deed was performed. Question: How do the thieves know another person knows their secret? Answer: The thieves found the body gone
Context: One evening, when there was a lovely sunset, a whole flock of beautiful great birds rose out of the bushes. He was not envious of them--how could it enter his mind to wish for such beauty for himself--he would have been happy if even the ducks had let him into their company--poor ugly creature. Question: Why wasn't the duckling envious of the swans? Answer: He would have been happy if even the ducks had let him into their company.
Context: cried two young men, 'and you will come with us this instant before the judge, and answer for it.' In answer, the poor man told, in a few words, how he had begged the houses from his brother, and produced the deed of gift which made him their owner. Question: What verdict did the judge make after he heard the story about the unfinished houses? Answer: The elder brother would keep his property.
Context: At last one morning, after the girl had been lying awake all night thinking of her husband, she said to her friend the snake:  'You have all shown me much kindness, but now I am well again, and want to go home and hear some news of my husband, and if he still mourns for me!' Now the heart of the snake was sad at her words, but he only said:  'Yes, thus it must be; go and bid farewell to my father and mother, but if they offer you a present, see that you take nothing but my father's ring and my mother's casket.' Question: What did the girl want to do one morning? Answer: go home and hear some news of her husband
Context: This little incident made the clever Emperor think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and his men over the river in the same way that the leaf had carried over the spider. He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat. Question: What happened because gained a complete victory? Answer: put an end to the war which had troubled his country for so long
Context: The moment she did so a hollow roar, like that of some wild beast, sounded from the forest. Finally there was a cracking and breaking among the trees, the bushes were thrust aside, and the princess saw a great grey wolf come running out of the forest and straight up the hill. Question: What happened because the princess poured the contents of the kettle over the wolf? Answer: The wolf was transformed, cast off his thick grey pelt, and there stood a handsome young man.
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: What happened after Morraha saluted to the young man? Answer: The other saluted him in the same fashion, and asked him would he play a game of cards with him.
Context: THIS is a Pussy called Miss Moppet, she thinks she has heard a mouse! THIS is the Mouse peeping out behind the cupboard, and making fun of Miss Moppet. Question: Why does Miss Moppet miss the Mouse and hit her own head? Answer: because Miss Moppet jumps too late
Context: Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both their breasts; and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle and trampling and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised. He spread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, and he could see her plain; but such a hullabulloo rose as if there was an earthquake, and he found himself surrounded by horrible-looking things, roaring at him and striving to pull his wife away. Question: How did the neighbor and the poor man feel after they walked towards his wife? Answer: nervous
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: Why was the lad not afraid of the giant? Answer: He was hiding in a tree.
Context: For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her. When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest. Question: Why did the girl sleep in the trees? Answer: so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her
Context: 'With that, my dear, he took up the goose by the two wings--criss o' my cross an you,' says he, markin' her to grace with the blessed sign at the same minute. Away she went down there, right in front of you, along the side o' the cliff, and flew over Saint Kavin's bed (that is, where Saint Kavin's bed is now, but was not then, by reason as it wasn't made, but was contrived after by Saint Kavin himself, that the women might leave him alone). Question: What happened after Finn Ma Cool tried the sword first in the mountain? Answer: He cut it down into a gap.
Context: After they had again wandered on for a few days, the comrade said: "Now we will soon reach the castle in which she lives, the princess of whom you dreamed, and when we reach it, you must go to the castle and tell the king what you dreamed, and your journey's aim." He told her, too, why he was there, and she replied that she liked him quite well, and would gladly take him, but first he must undergo three tests. Question: Who lives in the castle? Answer: the princess of whom the youth dreamed
Context: That pleased the others, and they sat there a long time discussing the day and the fairway. " "Well, there is a counter-spell for what we wish to do, and if it is used, it will go hard with us, for it will cost us nothing less than our lives!" Question: What would happen if someone used the counter-spell? Answer: It would kill the witches.
Context: THERE was once a regular student, who lived in a garret and had no possessions. The huckster could afford this, and therefore the goblin remained with him--which was very shrewd of the goblin. Question: Why did the goblin live with the huckster? Answer: the huckster had jam at christmas
Context: On one side, sitting among the cinders, with his face blackened, and crying aloud, was his elder brother. He seemed to be so lost and far-gone in grief that he could not notice his brother's arrival. Question: Who presented so curious a figure that Maidwa could not keep from laughing? Answer: Jeekewis
Context: When the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all. The youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner, and sang and danced, as he always did. Question: What was the rat doing when the youth saw her? Answer: wiggling and waggling around and had a bunch of keys hanging from her tail
Context: As time passed on, the king's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide. The queen observed this with an angry eye, for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters. Question: What were the queen's daughters like? Answer: homely, evil of disposition, and no one knew any good of them
Context: It was the old woodcutter who had followed Kintaro from the river. There are few men who can boast of the strength of my right arm!" Your strength of arm, which I have just tried, proves what I saw this afternoon. Question: Why did the woodcutter want to wrestle? Answer: He wanted to know who was stronger.
Context: "But the old woman hid me behind a great cask, and no sooner had she done so than the robbers came home, dragging with them a young woman, and they gave her to drink wine thrice, white, red, and yellow. The robber, who during the story had grown deadly white, sprang up, and would have escaped, but the folks held him fast, and delivered him up to justice. Question: What happened to the robber and his whole gang after the bride told her story? Answer: they were condemned and executed
Context: An old couple once lived in a hut under a grove of palm trees, and they had one son and one daughter. 'Your property, certainly,' answered the son, and his father nodded. Question: What choices did the father give to his children? Answer: have his blessing or his property
Context: "And that is the truth," the woman replied, "for he grants my every wish before it is spoken." "Well," said the woman, "if that will help, I will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it, for then he always takes a little noon-day nap." Question: What did Kitta warn the husband? Answer: His wife has in mind to cut his throat
Context: When the day came, the bracket bull said, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough--that's the last luck you have. When you'll see me dead, go and cut a strip of skin of the back and a strip of the stomach off me, and make a belt of it, and at any time at all there will be any hard pinch on you, you shall have my power." Question: What will happen whenever the son has a hard pinch? Answer: The son shall have the bracket bull's power.
Context: When he awoke, he sighed long thinking over his strange experience. And the following day he sent off fifteen hundred soldiers to stand guard by the Lake of the Maidens. Question: What did princess's advisor request from Dschou Bau? Answer: soldiers of his who have died
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: Why did the women want the girl's pumpkins? Answer: The women said that no pumpkins were as sweet as these.
Context: With that the King whistled, and down came the poor goose, all as one as a hound, waddlin' up to the poor old cripple, her master, and as like him as two pays. Now,' says he, 'this is the bargain I'll make with you, King O'Toole: will you give me all the ground the goose flies over, the first offer, after I make her as good as new?' Question: What happened after the king whistled? Answer: down came the poor goose
Context: He entered the inn and the two brothers made merry and feasted, till very soon their money was all spent. The youngest son set forth in his turn, and he arrived at the place where his brothers were still prisoners. Question: What did the two brothers both do when they entered the inn? Answer: made merry and feasted
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Who supervised the young nobles? Answer: chosen knights
Context: "I should like to live," he said to himself, "till I am five or six hundred years old at least, free from all sickness. There was a Princess of Yamato, who, it was said, lived to the age of five hundred. Question: What types of people lived a long time? Answer: emperors
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: What did the girl do in return for the kindness shown to her? Answer: was so useful and pleasant to her husband's parents
Context: WHEN Timmy and Goody Tiptoes came to the nut thicket, they found other squirrels were there already. WHEN these stumps were full, they began to empty the bags into a hole high up a tree, that had belonged to a wood-pecker; the nuts rattled down--down--down inside. Question: What did Timmy Tiptoes and his wife do every day? Answer: They made several journey and picked quanitites of nuts.
Context: In the Skalunda mountain, near the church, there once lived a giant in the early days, who no longer felt comfortable after the church had been built there. He decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells; so he emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea. Question: Who were among those saved from the shipwreck? Answer: several people from Skalunda
Context: He found all the members of the crab's family and his relatives waiting to receive and welcome him. As soon as the bows of meeting were over they led him to a hall. Question: What was exchanged between the young chief mourner and monkey? Answer: expressions of condolence and thanks
Context: One day, the Sunball having sent her to the straw shed to fetch straw, the girl sat down on the piles of straw and bemoaned herself, saying: 'As sighs this straw under my feet so sighs my heart after my mother.' And this caused her to be so long away that the Sunball asked her, when she came back: 'Eh, Letiko, where have you been so long?' Question: Why was Letiko mourning while fetching the straws? Answer: She missed her mother.
Context: Three or four other bees
put their heads out, and buzzed fiercely. He was sitting all over a small rocking-chair, twiddling his thumbs and
smiling, with his feet on the fender. Question: Why did Mrs. Tittlemouse need to ask for help? Answer: She pulled out moss and three or four other bees put their heads out.
Context: She accordingly left him at the gathering-place of the wood, and returned to the lodge. "Cut it in two," he answered, "and season our pottage with one half of it at a time." Question: How did the boy feel when he killed a bird? Answer: triumph
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: What happened at the end of the year? Answer: Conchubar kept the kingship.
Context: When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. The maiden asked the woman whether she did not know which road led to the prince who lived in the castle that was east of the sun and west of the moon, and who was to marry a princess with a nose three yards long. At length she again came to a hill, before which sat an old woman with a golden reel. But I will loan you my horse to ride to the nearest neighbor. And when you reach him, just give my horse a blow back of the left ear, and then he will return here of his own accord." Question: How many old women did the maiden encounter? Answer: three
Context: But when the troll noticed he was getting the worst of it, he grew frightened, quickly ran to a high tree, and clambered into it. Then the troll tore three hairs from his head, handed them to Silverwhite and said: "Lay a hair on each of the dogs, and then they will be as quiet as can be." Question: What happened to the dogs because Silverwhite laid the three troll hairs on his dogs' heads? Answer: the dogs fell silent and lay motionless
Context: When night came, he was pleased to find himself near another village. Maidwa again set out rather slowly, but when the sun had risen, he tried his speed by shooting an arrow ahead, and running after it. But it fell behind him, and he knew that he had lost nothing of his quickness of foot. Question: What happened after Maidwa tried his speed by shooting an arrow ahead and running after it? Answer: The arrow fell behind him.
Context: Isaac's share was laid down in the forepart of the boat; and he himself took down the fish from the stands; yet he could not understand how it was that the stands were continually filled with fresh fish, no matter how many he took away, and when he sailed away they were still as full as ever. Late in the evening, when he was about to sail for home, the man came aboard and told him never to forget those who survived his neighbor, for his neighbor himself had died. Question: Why was Isaac able to buy a new schooner? Answer: He got so much money for his fish.
Context: "How," the sister asked again, "could you have got it there?" It was as much as the girl could do to drag the great trout within doors. Question: How did the boy feel playing with the ball? Answer: merry
Context: When Murmur Goose-Egg had nearly finished threshing, the enemy broke into the land, and war began. Then the king told him to gather people about him, and go to meet the foe, and do battle with him, for he thought the enemy would probably kill him. Question: What happened when Murmur Goose-Egg nearly finished threshing? Answer: The enemy broke into the land and war began.
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. If White Feather should overcome the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on, until they had all measured speed with him. By a dexterous use of the vine, he gained the first race, struck down his competitor, and cut off his head. Question: How will the young man feel when the giants treat him well? Answer: confused
Context: Ko-ko of course bethought him of the bones, for that was just what, as he knew, had occurred to Onwee Bahmondang under the like circumstances. He then desired that they would turn him into an opossum; an application which met with the same luck as the previous one. Ko-ko, in spite of all his begging and supplication and beseeching, was obliged to be still Ko-ko. Question: What did Ko-ko think was the reason for the guardian spirits' lack of attention? Answer: The guardian spirits were either all deaf, or indifferent to his wishes, or absent on some other business.
Context: Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife, who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. At first the girl told him that so few were left that she could not spare any; but when she found that he belonged to her brother, she changed her mind, and went out to the tree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there. Question: What did the girl do after the slave asked for a pumpkin? Answer: gathered the largest and the ripest that was there
Context: She was still more angry when they made no answer to her complaint; but when she found that they were stark dead, and placed in this way to mock her, her fury was very great indeed. The old Toad-Woman was very anxious to get forward, but the snakeberry-vines kept spreading out on every side; and they still grow and grow, and spread and spread; and to this day the wicked old Toad-Woman is busy picking the berries, and she will never be able to get beyond to the other side, to disturb the happiness of the young hunter and his mother, who still live, with their faithful dog, in the shadow of the beautiful wood-side where they were born. Question: Why did Spirit-Iron tell his master about the snakeberry? Answer: Spirit-Iron knew the Toad-Woman could not resist the berries.
Context: I must thank you for coming to visit me: I have been expecting you for a long time. If I were only away and up above again," thought he, but he said nothing. I am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding, and I will hurry all I can. Question: Why did the youth have no great appetite for the food? Answer: It was rat food.
Context: The compass, with its needle always pointing to the North, is quite a common thing. No matter how the chariot was placed the figure always wheeled about and pointed to the South. Question: Where did the figure always point? Answer: South
Context: The boy went out again and brought home the little animal, which he asked his grandfather to boil, that they might feast on it. As they lived alone, and away from other Indians, the curiosity of the stripling was excited to know what was passing in the world. Question: How will the grandfather feel when the boy successfully hunts the rabbit? Answer: happy
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: How will the king's daughter feel about being sacrificed to the dragon? Answer: scared
Context: On the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city, the rich one on horseback, with plenty of food in his knapsack, the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eat on the way. The lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer, who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife's birthday, and bade the rich man enter and sit down, while he himself took the horse to the stable. Question: Why did the elder brother ask timidly if he might spend the night in a corner? Answer: He was worried the farmer would decline.
Context: "BUT as to a nest--there is no difficulty: I have a sackful of feathers in my wood-shed. "THIS is my summer residence; you would not find my earth--my winter house--so convenient," said the hospitable gentleman. Question: why was the shed almost suffocating? Answer: The shed was almost quite full of feather.
Context: 'I shall row out a little way--only a very little way,' he thought. The pea-shell boats had travelled so far that they only looked like little specks on the ocean. ' The oars were locked up in the boat-house, and Little Lasse had not noticed that the boat was empty. Question: Why weren't there any oars to row with? Answer: The oars were locked up in the boat-house.
Context: There is a lone moor in Scotland, which, in times past, was said to be haunted by an Elfin Knight. And although men might search every inch of the ground, no trace of him would be found, and with a thrill of horror the searching party would go home again, shaking their heads and whispering to one another that he had fallen into the hands of the dreaded Knight. Question: Why was everyone afraid of the Elfin Knight? Answer: Someone would set out to cross the moor and would never be heard of again.
Context: "O, yes, I know very well where the castle lies," said the North Wind. " For if we are to get there to-morrow, we must have the whole day before us." And everywhere beneath them raged such a storm that forests were pulled out by the roots, and houses torn down. Question: Why did the North Wind blow himself up and make himself large and thick? Answer: The journey was long.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: How did the Flower Fairy feel seeing Sylvia again? Answer: delighted
Context: Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" But as they were amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deep growl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after that one yet more savage; but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus Mac Roy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "It is Setanta." Question: Why were there many jests concerning Culain? Answer: He was wont to cause laughter to Conchubar Mac Nessa and his knights, yet he was good to his own people and faithful to the Crave Rue.
Context: Starkad, the hero of the legends, the bravest warrior in the army of the North, had fallen into disgrace with the king because of a certain princess, so he wandered up into Norland, and settled down at Rude in Tuna, where he was known as the Thrall of the Alders or the Red Fellow. Question: What was Starkard known as in Tuna? Answer: Thrall of the Alders or the Red Fellow
Context: "Brothers," he said, "I have invited you to partake with me of the offerings made by the mortals on earth, which have been brought by our relation," pointing to Wassamo. " And it was understood that the petitioners were to have all they asked, and that Wassamo was thenceforward fairly accepted as a member of the great family of Spirits. Question: How will the Old Spirit's brothers feel about the tobacco? Answer: pleased
Context: Ali Baba and his elder brother Cassim are the sons of a merchant. After the death of their father, the greedy Cassim marries a wealthy woman and becomes well-to-do, building on their father's business - but Ali Baba marries a poor woman and settles into the trade of a woodcutter. Question: Where does the story take place? Answer: Baghdad
Context: Yes, sure enough, just then a shaggy, reddish-brown wolf's head looked out from under the kiln! He certainly jumped on to Walter, but he only shook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face. Question: What did Walter do after he saw a wolf's head? Answer: threw his drum far away, took to his heels and ran. He ran as fast as he could back to the mill
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant boy, who dreamed that he would get a princess, from far, far away, that she was as white as milk, and as red as blood, and so rich that her riches had no end. This surprised the youth, and when the pastor came out of the church, he asked him what it meant. " Question: Why did the peasant sell all he had and go forth to look for the princess? Answer: She was so beautiful and winning that he could not go on living without her.
Context: When Confucius came to the earth, the Kilin, that strange beast which is the prince of all four-footed animals, and only appears when there is a great man on earth, sought the child and spat out a jade whereon was written: "Son of the Watercrystal you are destined to become an uncrowned king!" And Confucius grew up, studied diligently, learned wisdom and came to be a saint. Question: Why was Confucius's death reverenced as the greatest of teachers and masters? Answer: He did much good on earth.
Context: When I entered the city the onlookers were crowded together like walls. But I thought this too great an honor and greeted her below, on the steps. Five or six visitors sat in a circle about the princess, and a general led me to my place. Question: Where did the general go after he met a man in a purple gown riding a black horse? Answer: to a great city
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: How did the sister notice her pot was gone? Answer: sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere
Context: When this had been kept up for the customary time, the enchanted dog was completely sweated away, and in his stead, as might have been expected, out came a very handsome young man, but, unhappily, without the power of speech. When the deputation reached the lodge, they were surprised to find, in the place of the dog, a fine young man; and on announcing their message, they all returned to the old chief, who was no less surprised at the change. Question: What did the sweating-lodge take away along with the dog? Answer: the voice
Context: He was much surprised to see the little golden hut, glittering and sparkling there in the forest, and was still more surprised at the girl within the hut. And all would have liked to have known where he had come from, but he said not a word, for he was ashamed. Question: Why was the bailiff surprised by the golden hut? Answer: It seemed out of place.
Context: When the day came, the bracket bull said, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough--that's the last luck you have. When you'll see me dead, go and cut a strip of skin of the back and a strip of the stomach off me, and make a belt of it, and at any time at all there will be any hard pinch on you, you shall have my power." Question: How will the son feel when the bracket bull dies? Answer: sad
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Who lived in the North? Answer: a hunter
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: What did the Abbot find when he came to his abbey? Answer: never was heard of more
Context: Now all that night it had rained heavily, and did not seem likely to stop, and in some places the road was so thick with mud that it was almost impossible to get across it. In one spot it was so very bad that a mule laden with baggage had got stuck in it, and tug as he might, his master was quite unable to pull him out. Question: What did the two horsemen do after the muleteer appealed to them? Answer: paid no heed to his cries
Context: After a time the father came, together with A-Sung, and made Kung a present of a hundred ounces of gold. Kung opened his eyes and saw his old home, and then he knew that his friend was not of human kind. Question: What happened when the youth immediately brought Kung and his wife to his old home? Answer: He knew that his friend was not of human kind.
Context: Well, we had everything of the best, and plenty of it; and we ate, and we drank, and we danced, and the young master, by the same token, danced with Peggy Barry, from the Bohereen--a lovely young couple they were, though they are both low enough now. Well, I thought, for all that, in myself, I'd just step to Molly Cronohan's, the fairy woman, to speak a word about the bracket heifer that was bewitched; and so, as I was crossing the stepping-stones of the ford of Ballyashenogh, and was looking up at the stars, an  blessing myself--for why? Question: How will Daniel feel approaching the shore? Answer: lucky
Context: Then he grew angry, stood up, took his club, pounded the ground with it, and asked whether they wanted to take the food from his mouth with the blueberries they were blowing out at him from their clumsy blow-pipes. When Murmur came back and asked for more work, the king was at a loss, for he had felt sure that now he was rid of him. Question: How did the king feel to see Murmur return? Answer: astonished
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: Why did the Magician send his servants to fetch the Prince? Answer: The appointed time was past.
Context: "Try and know them again," said the man, "for the fifty young girls are in this house, and this woman beside me is their mistress, Dechtire. I saw the man of the house, tall and open-handed and shining." " Question: What did Dechtire give Bricriu? Answer: a purple cloak with gold fringes
Context: As he stood musing on this fairy spectacle, a strange noise came to his ear from a distance. Floating at a distance upon its waters sat a most beautiful Red Swan, whose plumage glittered in the sun, and when it lifted up its neck, it uttered the peculiar tone he had heard. Question: Where did Maidwa follow the sound to? Answer: the shore of a lake
Context: She then came to a large lake, where there was neither ship nor boat. Neither was it open, nor low enough that she could wade through it. Question: Why did the mother try to drink up the lake? Answer: because she couldn't get across it
Context: Long, long ago, there lived an old farmer and his wife who had made their home in the mountains, far from any town. So he lay in wait day after day and night after night, with a big club, hoping to catch the badger, but all in vain. Question: Why was the old farmer determined to put to stop the badger? Answer: He could not stand it any longer.
Context: Those who hold it are too powerful for the magician, and many have sacrificed themselves to recover it for him, but without success. He will show you the course to take, and if you feel inclined, as I see that you do, go forward, my son, with a strong heart; persevere, and I have a presentiment that you will succeed. Question: How would Maidwa know if he had reached the magician's lodge? Answer: by the groans he would hear far over the prairie
Context: 'Let us take it and row over to the island, where there must be a house,' said the eldest brother; 'and perhaps they will give us food and shelter.' The young men's hearts rejoiced as they thought that at last they would be able to rest their weary limbs, and they entered the hut, but were amazed to see an ugly old woman inside, wrapped in a cloak of gold which lighted up the whole house. Question: What did the brothers do with the boat? Answer: rowed across in the direction of the light
Context: 'What a beautiful flower!'exclaimed the woman, and she kissed the red and yellow petals; but as she kissed them the flower burst open. There she lay at night, but in the day-time she used to play about on the table; here the woman had put a bowl, surrounded by a ring of flowers, with their stalks in water, in the middle of which floated a great tulip pedal, and on this Thumbelina sat, and sailed from one side of the bowl to the other, rowing herself with two white horse-hairs for oars. Question: Who was scarcely half a thumb in height? Answer: Thumbelina
Context: The young men laughed at him-him, Strong Desire-who feared to walk to the river at night-time. It was easily recognized, and the young men who had scoffed at Strong Desire shrunk into the corners out of sight. Question: How will the young men feel when they saw the head of the Red Sorcerer? Answer: scared
Context: I mean what our pavers call a maiden, a thing with which they ram down the paving-stones in the roads. At the top she is narrow, and has a stick passed across through her waist, and this stick forms the arms of the maiden. Question: what does a maiden do? Answer: ram down paving stones in the roads
Context: One fine day, when the monkey was sitting at home, he was surprised by the appearance of a messenger from the young crab. While he was wondering what this might mean, the messenger bowed before him and said:  "I have been sent by my master to inform you that his father died the other day in falling from a persimmon tree while trying to climb the tree after fruit. Question: How did the monkey feel when he saw the messenger? Answer: surprised
Context: The simple-minded crab could not resist the monkey's clever persuasion. As soon as the crab reached home he put the persimmon-seed in the ground as the monkey had told him. Question: What happened because the monkey feared the crab's scissor-like claws? Answer: gave up the persimmon-seed to the crab
Context: Long, long ago, one bright autumn day in Japan, it happened, that a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab were playing together along the bank of a river. Then the monkey held up his persimmon-seed and said:  "I also have found something good! Question: What did the crab find? Answer: a rice-dumpling
Context: One day as he was standing in his stable, he sank through the ground. Down below, in the place to which he had come, everything was unspeakably handsome. Question: What did the neighbor promise to the peasant if he were to move his stable? Answer: He shall never go short of pasture nor good crops.
Context: said he gently, and, as she only sobbed louder, he continued:  'Are you a woman, or a spirit of the woods?' 'I am a woman,' she answered slowly, wiping her eyes with a leaf of the creeper that hung about her. Question: Why did the girl cry in the forest? Answer: She faced a lot of obstacles after her parents' deaths.
Context: Now when the giant had been sleeping quite a while, he began to stretch himself on his bench. " But he could not see who had called him, and so he called out to the Master Girl. Question: How did the giant feel when he woke up and could not find the Master Girl? Answer: confused
Context: "You will get nothing from me, and that's as flat as the old fir-tree outside is fast," said the devil's grandmother. Then asked the devil's grandmother once more whether she would now pay him the tribute. Question: What will the devil's grandmother do after Murmur shook the fir-tree? Answer: give him the tribute
Context: There was once a little boy whose name was Lars, and because he was so little he was called Little Lasse; he was a brave little man, for he sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat. Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rose high above his cap, and he picked seventeen large shells, the longest and straightest he could find. Question: What was Lars called? Answer: Little Lasse
Context: The wolves, who sometimes came as far north as the icebergs, whispered among themselves that the King of the Polar Bears was either a magician or under the protection of a powerful fairy. Yet the time came when this monarch of the north met man, and his wisdom failed him. Question: Why did the wolves believe that that the King of the Polar Bears was either a magician or under the protection of a powerful fairy? Answer: No earthly thing seemed able to harm him; he never failed to secure plenty of food, and he grew bigger and stronger day by day and year by year.
Context: In the reign of the famous King Arthur there lived in Cornwall a lad named Jack, who was a boy of a bold temper, and took delight in hearing or reading of conjurers, giants, and fairies; and used to listen eagerly to the deeds of the knights of King Arthur's Round Table. In those days there lived on St. Michael's Mount, off Cornwall, a huge giant, eighteen feet high and nine feet round; his fierce and savage looks were the terror of all who beheld him. Question: How does the story describe Jack? Answer: a boy of bold temper, and took delight in hearing or reading of conjurers, giants, and fairies, and used to listen eagerly to the deeds of the knights of King Arthur's Round Table
Context: The old woman at last found a nice spot by the river bank and put her basket down. Then she set to work to wash the clothes; she took them one by one out of the basket and washed them in the river and rubbed them on the stones. Question: How did the woman wash the clothes? Answer: took them out one by one
Context: But his mother, who was still living, objected: "she cannot speak," said she, "and, maybe, she belongs to the troll-folk." When those whom the prince had set to keep guard opened their eyes again, they thought that the queen had devoured her child, and the old queen wanted to have her burned; but the prince loved her so very tenderly, that after much pleading he succeeded in having her saved from punishment, though only with the greatest difficulty. Question: How was the prince able to save the queen from punishment? Answer: after much pleading
Context: The youth departed, weeping, and met the little hare, who was munching wild thyme. 'It is because,' he answered, 'the castle people will not allow me to carry off the Golden Blackbird without giving them the Porcelain Maiden in exchange.' Question: What occurred when the Golden Bird touch the bars of the spendid cage? Answer: He awoke and began to whistle so that all the servants of the castle ran to see what was the matter.
Context: He did not sleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow. The mother ran out from the kitchen to the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch. Question: Where did the mother place the child in the morning? Answer: near the porch
Context: he said to himself, and instantly the door opened, and in came a tiny figure covered by a long black veil. It was conducted by two cats wearing black mantles and carrying swords, and a large party of cats followed, who brought in cages full of rats and mice. Question: Who brought in cages full of rats and mice? Answer: a large party of cats
Context: Then the Squibs danced all over the place, and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet. "Good-bye," cried the Fire-balloon, as he soared away, dropping tiny blue sparks. Question: Why did the Rocket not go off? Answer: He was so damp with crying.
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: What did the messenger see when he came? Answer: the wolf covered with blood
Context: At about that time the emperor was induced to have some of his faithful servants slain. Later, when the rebellion of the "Red Eyebrows" broke out, his tomb was opened. Question: Where did Dschang Liang have to meet the old man after he finished reading the book? Answer: the Gu Tschong Mountain
Context: So Murmur Goose-Egg began to chop fire-wood, and hewed to the line in such fashion that the chips fairly flew. Before long he had chopped up all that there was, kindling wood and building wood, beams and boards, and when he was through with it, he came and asked what he was to do now. Question: What did Murmur Goose-Egg do that was bad? Answer: He had chopped up all that there was, kindling wood and building wood, beams and boards.
Context: The great bear had never seen such creatures before, and therefore advanced toward the boat, sniffing the strange scent with aroused curiosity and wondering whether he might take them for friends or foes, food or carrion. Above him circled thousands of his friends the gulls, wondering if their benefactor were really dead and it was proper to eat him. Question: What will the men do to the polar bear after they made a loud "bang"? Answer: cut away his hide
Context: Then the girl went back again to the well, not knowing what to do, and in the despair of her heart she jumped down into the well the same way the spindle had gone. And she walked on through the meadow until she came to a baker's oven that was full of bread; and the bread called out to her,  "Oh, take me out, take me out, or I shall burn; I am baked enough already!" Question: What did the bread ask her to do? Answer: take it out of the oven
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Why did Tom stop walking down street in the heel of the evening? Answer: Some of the little boys had no more manners nor if they were Dublin jackeens, and put out their tongues at Tom's club and Tom's goat-skin.
Context: Running crab-fashion up the stony river bank, over the pathways into the shadowy forest, the crab at last found the monkey taking an afternoon nap in his favorite pine-tree, with his tail curled tight around a branch to prevent him from falling off in his dreams. He was soon wide awake, however, when he heard himself called, and eagerly listening to what the crab told him. Question: What was the monkey doing when the crab found him? Answer: taking an afternoon nap
Context: So Jonas and Lena used to say of him 'Look, there goes Walter, who shoots the wolves.' He had besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle, to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon as he had killed them. Question: Why was Walter's tin sabre a little broken? Answer: He had with incredible courage fought his way through a whole unfriendly army of gooseberry bushes.
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: What did the young man raw from his pocket? Answer: a table and two chairs and a pack of cards
Context: It was certainly tiresome sometimes climbing over the fallen trees, and getting caught in the branches, and waging war with the juniper bushes and the midges, but what did that matter? The wood had been on fire once, and now raspberry bushes had grown up, and there were raspberry bushes and raspberry bushes as far as the eye could see. Question: How were Lisa and Aina able to pick a lot of raspberries? Answer: They found a raspberry wood.
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: Why was the Elfin King sitting stiff and stark like his followers? Answer: He was frozen too.
Context: Long, long ago, there lived an old farmer and his wife who had made their home in the mountains, far from any town. So he lay in wait day after day and night after night, with a big club, hoping to catch the badger, but all in vain. Question: How did the man try to catch the badger? Answer: lay in wait with a big club
Context: Now there came on a dreadful storm, and the flowers of the field folded their leaves or bent their heads as it passed over them. Question: Why do the flowers fold their leaves? Answer: there's a storm
Context: Then came two footmen in livery and carried the fir-tree to a large and beautiful room. On its branches they hung little nets cut out of coloured paper, each full of sugarplums; gilt apples and nuts hung down as if they were growing, over a hundred red, blue, and white tapers were fastened among the branches. Question: Where did the two footmen carry the fir-tree? Answer: to a large and beautiful room
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: What will the Abbot pray for? Answer: forgiveness of his sins
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a Pussy-cat called Ribby, who invited a little dog called Duchess to tea. "Come in good time, my dear Duchess," said Ribby's letter, "and we will have something so very nice. Question: What does Ribby bake something in? Answer: a pie dish with pink rim
Context: Men call me Queen, but it is of a far other country; for I am the Queen of Fairy-land, and not the Queen of Heaven." And certainly it seemed as if what she said were true; for, from that moment, it was as if a spell were cast over Thomas, making him forget prudence, and caution, and common-sense itself. Question: Why did Thomas beg the Queen of Fairies for a kiss? Answer: He was so entranced with the Lady's beauty.
Context: The goddess said: "For hundreds of years my family has been living in the depth of the Eastern Sea. And not long ago, our enemy Pi-Lo himself wanted to deliver an imperial letter in the cave of the Sea of Dungting. Question: Why did the ancestor of Pi-Lo nearly destroy the mistress's entire clan by fire? Answer: Their treasures excited the jealousy of men.
Context: The little hare then vanished; the youth did as he was bid, and the castle servants never noticed that he was carrying off the Golden Bird. Then they continued their journey, taking with them the Porcelain Maiden, in the firm belief that their brother was drowned. Question: Who rescued the youngest son out of the water? Answer: the little hare
Context: And when the bird came to dish up the dinner, there was no cook to be seen; and he turned over the heap of wood, and looked and looked, but the cook never appeared again. By accident the wood caught fire, and the bird hastened to fetch water to put it out, but he let fall the bucket in the well, and himself after it, and as he could not get out again, he was obliged to be drowned. Question: What occurred to the bird when he hastened to fetch the water? Answer: He could not get out of the well and was obliged to be drowned.
Context: "This is your work," said the Fox angrily, turning to the poor, innocent Wolf. " And, besides, I can see by the sleekness of your fur that you have fared well of late." Question: Why did the Fox blame the Wolf for eating the butter? Answer: He did not want to be blamed for eating it.
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: Who wished to marry the princess? Answer: an envious wizened
Context: 'These coffins,' she said, 'were intended for your brothers, but they stole secretly away before you were born.' She stepped in and found a youth who, marvelling at her beauty, at the royal robes she wore, and at the golden star on her forehead, asked her where she came from and whither she was going. Question: Where did the girl come to in the evening after walking all day long? Answer: the little enchanted house
Context: One evening the student came into the shop through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself; he had no one to send, and therefore he came himself. The huckster's wife was a woman who could do more than merely nod, for she usually had plenty to say for herself. Question: Why shouldn't the page have been torn from the book? Answer: it was full of poetry
Context: Do not weep any more, only show me how I may get into the castle." Then the two ladies led the way and showed Momotaro a little back door in the lowest part of the castle wall--so small that Momotaro could hardly crawl in. Question: How did Momotaro get into the castle? Answer: the two ladies led the way
Context: thought she, "can it be that my poor children that he devoured for his evening meal are still alive?" Then she cut the wolf's body open, and no sooner had she made one snip than out came the head of one of the kids, and then another snip, and then one after the other the six little kids all jumped out alive and well, for in his greediness the rogue had swallowed them down whole. Question: Why did the mother goat command the little goats to fetch some stones? Answer: to fill the wolf's body with them as he lies asleep
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. Let us follow him, and see from what part of the world he cometh." Question: What did Earl St. Clair decide to do after he finished muttering prayers? Answer: follow him to the world's end, if need be, and try to deliver him from the spell that had been cast over him
Context: There were many other playthings on the table on which they were being set out, but the nicest of all was a pretty little castle made of cardboard, with windows through which you could see into the rooms. Wax swans were floating about and reflecting themselves in it. She was cut out of paper, but she had on a dress of the finest muslin, with a scarf of narrow blue ribbon round her shoulders, fastened in the middle with a glittering rose made of gold paper, which was as large as her head. Question: Why did the Tin-soldier want to marry the Dancer? Answer: The Tin-soldier thought that she, too, had only one leg.
Context: how sorry Little Lasse was now that he had been disobedient and got into the boat, when father and mother had so often forbidden him to do so! He heard the low words which Little Lasse said to God, and he immediately drew the boat to himself and laid Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rose leaves. Question: Who played with Little Lasse? Answer: a little dream-boy
Context: When the Princess heard this she began to cry, but it was no good; she had to keep her word. So she scraped away harder than ever, and made the hole so large that he could get out. Question: Why was the Princess crying? Answer: If she did not come everything in the kingdom shall fall into ruin and not one stone shall be left upon another.
Context: A crowd as large as that at a fair at once gathered, and all wanted to buy the pig. And one would overbid another, offering far more than a whole herd of pigs were worth. Question: Who came along and whispered something to the peasant? Answer: a gentleman
Context: But his mother, who was still living, objected: "she cannot speak," said she, "and, maybe, she belongs to the troll-folk." When those whom the prince had set to keep guard opened their eyes again, they thought that the queen had devoured her child, and the old queen wanted to have her burned; but the prince loved her so very tenderly, that after much pleading he succeeded in having her saved from punishment, though only with the greatest difficulty. Question: What happened because the girl could not speak? Answer: The prince's mother objected to their marriage.
Context: The sister replied:  "I do not say no, my brother, to what you desire. We are not forbidden the society of our fellow-mortals, but we are told to cherish each other, and to do nothing that shall not be agreeable to all our little household. Question: How did the two brothers often amuse themselves? Answer: playing ball
Context: The deer with long horns and the hare with long ears, it must have been an amusing sight to those who watched this queer match. In this way, sometimes the one, sometimes the other, conquering, the little party amused themselves till they were tired. Question: Why did the animals stop wrestling? Answer: They were wrestling for a long time.
Context: The youth departed, weeping, and met the little hare, who was munching wild thyme. 'It is because,' he answered, 'the castle people will not allow me to carry off the Golden Blackbird without giving them the Porcelain Maiden in exchange.' Question: How does the story describe the Porcelian Maiden? Answer: a young girl, beatiful as Venus, who dweels two hundred miles from the castle
Context: There were six falcons living in a nest, five of whom were still too young to fly, when it so happened that both the parent birds were shot in one day. The young brood waited anxiously for their return; but night came, and they were left without parents and without food. Question: What happened to the six falcons after their parents were shot? Answer: were left without parents and without food
Context: In the dragon-castle the messengers had enjoyed dainty fare, which tasted like flowers, herbs, ointment and sugar. He also had investigated why it was that the fisherman, when he chanced upon the cave, had not been destroyed by the dragons. Question: Why wasn't the fisherman destroyed by the dragons? Answer: The dragons had dreaded the odor of his fishing clothes.
Context: The youth departed, weeping, and met the little hare, who was munching wild thyme. 'It is because,' he answered, 'the castle people will not allow me to carry off the Golden Blackbird without giving them the Porcelain Maiden in exchange.' Question: What does the youngest son need to bring in exchange of the Golden Bird? Answer: the Porcelian Maiden
Context: When he got back, he showed the arm to his comrades, who one and all called him the hero of their band and gave him a great feast. He felt sure that one day or other, as soon as the ogre got over his scare, he would come to try to get his arm back again. Question: Why did Wantanabe's comrades call him a hero and give him a great feast? Answer: Watanabe cut the ogre's arm.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: Why did the evil one not let Aspenclog throw? Answer: The evil one was afraid of losing his ball.
Context: At that she began to cry again, and told the king's son all that had befallen her since the death of her mother. Very soon the slave returned with the litter, which was placed on the ground close to the bushes where the girl lay. Question: What did the girl do after the man was gone? Answer: climbed down, and hid herself on the ground in some bushes
Context: Happily Jonas heard his cry of distress, for Walter was quite near the mill now, and he ran and helped him up. When Walter beat his drum, Caro crept out, and when Walter ran away, Caro ran after him, as he so often does when Walter wants to romp and play. Question: Why did Jonas run and help Walter up? Answer: Jonas heard his cry of distress.
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." Indeed, to tell the truth, she was supposed to be a fairy herself. Now, it so happened that Oonagh had a sister named Granua living opposite to them, on the very top of Cullamore, which I have mentioned already. Question: Why did Finn's heart quiet? Answer: He knew that Oonagh was hand-and-glove with the fairies.
Context: Suddenly he heard a laugh It was double, or the one must be the perfect echo of the other. To Wassamo there appeared to be two persons at no great distance. His cousin seemed lost to all earthly sense and sound; for he lay unmoved, smiling, in the calm light of the moon. Question: How will Wassamo feel when he sees the women? Answer: amazed
Context: It was in a capital position, for it could get sun, and there was enough air, and all around grew many tall companions, both pines and firs. It did not heed the warm sun and the fresh air, or notice the little peasant children who ran about chattering when they came out to gather wild strawberries and raspberries. Question: Where did the pretty little fir tree live? Answer: the wood
Context: When the peasant heard that, he went right to work pulling down his stable, to put it up again in another place. But one morning, when the milk-maid went into the stable, the dog was gone, and with him all the cows and the calves. Question: What happened when there was a year of scarcity? Answer: The peasant thought of selling or slaughtering half his herd.
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: What did the evil one say he would give Kittau Grau if she was successful? Answer: a splendid pair of shoes
Context: There lived in Boston a wise and ancient chemist by the name of Dr. Daws, who dabbled somewhat in magic. There also lived in Boston a young lady by the name of Claribel Sudds, who was possessed of much money, little wit and an intense desire to go upon the stage. Question: Who possessed of much money, little wit and an intense desire to go upon the stage? Answer: Claribel Sudds
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: What happened after the old man disappeared into the tree? Answer: The Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard.
Context: There was once a king in Ireland, and he had three daughters, and very nice princesses they were. And one day, when they and their father were walking on the lawn, the king began to joke with them, and to ask them whom they would like to be married to. ' Question: Who had three daughters? Answer: a king
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: What happened because the king was so fond of his sons? Answer: He never could bear to them all away from him at once.
Context: At this Oonagh set up a loud laugh of great contempt, by the way, and looked at him as if he were only a mere handful of a man. When Finn saw this he felt a certain description of moisture, which shall be nameless, oozing out through every pore of his skin; but Oonagh, depending upon her woman's wit, felt not a whit daunted. Question: What did Oonagh depend on? Answer: her woman's wit
Context: No matter however strong and brave the Emperor's soldiers were, the rebel with his magic could always escape in the end. With this instrument to show him the way he need not fear the dense fogs raised up by the magician to confound his men. Question: How would the shinansha help Kotei outsmart Shiyu? Answer: show him and his army the way when Shiyu used fog
Context: In the middle of the plain he perceived a post, and something waving at its top. As he passed some of those who were standing by, he came close to their ears, and as they heard the rapid whirr or murmur which this bird makes when it flies, they jumped aside, and asked each other what it could be. Question: Why did Maidwa moved the scalp off heavily? Answer: the weight was almost too great for him to bear up
Context: She began to make excuses, and said she could not find the way to it; but the bridegroom said,  "You must come and pay me a visit next Sunday; I have already invited company, and I will strew ashes on the path through the wood, so that you will be sure to find it." When Sunday came, and the girl set out on her way, she felt very uneasy without knowing exactly why; and she filled both pockets full of peas and lentils. Question: Why did the bridegroom leave ashes on the path? Answer: so the girl could find his house
Context: All traces of the warrior had disappeared, and in the shining surface only a beautiful lady looked back at him. They were talking of the news which had recently been carried to them, that the King's son had entered their country with a large army determined to exterminate their band. Question: Who did the chiefs think the Prince was? Answer: a beautiful woman
Context: When she had finished, they both sat staring at him with their mouths open. "No," said Samuel Whiskers, "make it properly, Anna Maria, with breadcrumbs." Question: Why did Samuel Whiskers go to the dairy? Answer: to get the butter
Context: I had bitten the youngest of my master's sons in the leg, because he kicked away the bone I was gnawing. ' But they were so angry, and from that time I have been fastened with a chain, and lost my bone. Question: Why did the yard-dog say was his reason for biting the master's son? Answer: He kicked away the bone I was gnawing.
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: Who kept Finn out of his rights? Answer: the sons of Morna
Context: The giant passed on before me and crossed Eas Roe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhuirn, without wetting his foot. He was followed by Caoilte Mac Ronan, together with the swiftest of the Fenians. They enquired what was the cause of the delay that the giant had not been slain. ' Question: Why did Fionn protect the giant? Answer: He did not want the giant to be killed.
Context: This little incident made the clever Emperor think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and his men over the river in the same way that the leaf had carried over the spider. He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat. Question: What did Kotei do once he crossed the river? Answer: attacked Shiyu's headquarters
Context: So they made an exchange; the toll keeper at the turnpike gate kept the goose, and the peasant carried off the fowl. Now he really had done a great deal of business on his way to the fair, and he was hot and tired. Question: How was the peasant feeling after fowl exchange? Answer: hot and tired
Context: said Murmur Goose-Egg, when he had reached the royal castle, and he flung down the knapsack full of money before the king, so that the whole castle tottered. The king thanked him kindly, and promised him a good reward, and a good character, if he wanted it; but Murmur only wanted more work to do. Question: What did Murmur want in exchange for the tribute? Answer: more work to do
Context: When it came to Jan. 1st there was still no money, and Pickles was unable to buy a dog licence. I have tried in vain to get a licence upon credit at the Post Office;" said Pickles. " Question: What happened when January 1st came? Answer: There was still no money, and Pickles was unable to buy a dog license.
Context: THE little rabbits smiled sweetly in their sleep under the shower of grass; they did not awake because the lettuces had been so soporific. He saw some funny little brown tips of ears sticking up through the lawn mowings. Question: What did the little rabbits dream of? Answer: They dreamt that their mother Flopsy was tucking them up in a hay bed.
Context: The giant wondered more and more at this; yet he did not answer a word, but went to bring two great bowls of hasty-pudding for their breakfast. Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as himself, so he contrived to button a leathern bag inside his coat, and slip the hasty-pudding into this bag, while he seemed to put it into his mouth. Question: Why did Jack slip the hasty-pudding into his bag? Answer: Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as himself.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: Who saw the blue flower while walking by? Answer: an old man
Context: But Murmur Goose-Egg hurried back to the castle and asked for the reward the king had promised him. If he has not come down yet, then he, together with the knapsack, is floating between heaven and earth to this very day. Question: What did the king do when Murmur asked for his reward? Answer: hesitated and began to make all shorts of excuses in order not to have to keep his promise
Context: He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit of armour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and the other people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. When the King's daughter came home she said that she would never marry a man but the man whom that shoe would fit. Question: Why did the king's daughter say sons of kings did not kill the dragon? Answer: It was not they, unless the shoe would fit them.
Context: So as soon as the sun had gone down, the King said to the huntsmen: "Now, come and show me the little house in the wood." But the King looked kindly on her, took her by the hand, and said,  "Will you go with me to my castle, and be my dear wife?" Question: Who did the maiden insist on bringing with her to the castle? Answer: the fawn
Context: They made a special mock of the walking-staff, and scarcely an hour in the day passed that they had not some disparaging reference to it. "True," said Oweenee, "it is but a simple stick; but as it supports the steps of my husband, it is more precious to me than all the forests of the north." She, however, smiled upon Osseo, and kept with him by the way the same as if he had been the comeliest bridegroom in all the company. Question: Why did everyone pity the young and handsome sister that had an unsuitable mate? Answer: Osseo was old and weak.
Context: You dear old man, you are always thinking of something to please me. The fowl will lay eggs and hatch them, and we shall have chickens. Question: Why was the woman delighted to hear the exchange of the goose for a fowl? Answer: The fowl will lay eggs and hatch them and they shall have chickens. They shall soon have a poultry yard.
Context: 'That is a clever trick of yours,' said the old man, when he had eaten as much as he wanted. ' Now, since he had been left to himself, Jack had grown ambitious, so, after a moment's hesitation, he took the cornet and gave the table in exchange. On the way thither he met another old man, who begged for something to eat. Five minutes later he summoned five hundred lancers out of the cornet and bade them go after the old man and fetch back the table. At length, however, at their mother's entreaty, he was told that he might pass the night in the stable. Question: How did Jack obtain the cornet and the bag? Answer: He exchanged them for the table.
Context: In a moment a second face, just like the first, presented itself. Little spirit fired his arrow--the man fell--he called out "Number two," and continued his meal. Question: What did the boy tell his sister to make him when spring came on? Answer: a new set of arrows and a bow
Context: But the heart of the Prince was full of war and conquest and he cared little for the faithful Ototachibana. From long exposure in traveling, and from care and grief at her lord's coldness to her, her beauty had faded, and her ivory skin was burnt brown by the sun, and the Prince told her one day that her place was in the Palace behind the screens at home and not with him upon the warpath. Question: What happened to Ototachibana due to the long exposure in traveling and the care and grief at her lord's coldness to her? Answer: Her beauty had faded.
Context: Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed to tremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant. It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquer Midna. Question: What did the men hear? Answer: a low sound like thunder
Context: You have but three days more, and your term will be completed. The father addressed Iadilla as he had the day before, and promised that he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him by the dawn of the morning. Question: How could one tell that Iadilla was still living? Answer: by the gentle heaving of his breast
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: Why did Thomas want a parting gift? Answer: He wanted to show people that he had been to Fairy-land.
Context: There was but little light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and its fitful flashes, by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness, served rather to increase than to dispel her fears. cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge; "there are two corpses clothed with garments!" Question: Why did the wife feel relieved when her husband came home? Answer: He could protect her from the two strange females.
Context: Li Dsing grew very much excited, told his wife what had happened, and both began to weep. Notscha, whom his master's magic had rendered invisible, threw the dragon to the ground with his armlet, and began to pitch into him. Question: What did Notscha do when he saw the Dragon-King? Answer: threw the dragon to the ground with his armlet, and began to pitch into him
Context: She made the best of a bad bargain, and said that he had done well. In the meantime the comrade went to the smith, and had him weld an additional twenty-four pounds of iron on his sword. Question: What did the comrade have the smith do? Answer: weld an additional twenty-four pounds of iron on his sword
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: Why did the mother at first say no to the lovely lady? Answer: She did not want to give her daughter away.
Context: And Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle-shout, and he rose impetuously from off his bed, but the wine overcame him, and his strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor. She called upon Cairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people, the men of Owen and of Niall, and together they went to the fort; but Sheen guarded it well, so that they could by no means find an entrance. Question: What happened after Murtough rose impetuously off the bed? Answer: The wine overcame him, and his strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor.
Context: She directed him to put in his girdle a blade of scented sword-grass, and to proceed the next morning to the banks of the lake, which was no other than that over which the Red Head reigned. These offers he was to refuse, and to say that he had come a great distance to be the wife of the Red Head, and that if the chief could not seek her for himself, she would return to her village. Question: Who was the terror of all the country? Answer: Hah-Undo-Tah, or the Red Head
Context: "Well," said she, "I have told him he is to bring me the thing I am thinking of by to-morrow noon, and that thing is your head. "I do not think he can," said the troll, who felt quite sure of himself, and laughed and chortled with pleasure in the most malicious way. Question: Why did the troll and the princess feel the youth would fail? Answer: It would be hard to bring the head of the troll.
Context: Why, then,' said I to him--thinking he did not know the right road home--very civilly, because why? Now, you can't see it from this, but there is, or there was in my time, a reaping-hook sticking out of the side of the moon, this way (drawing the figure thus on the ground with the end of his stick). Question: Why did the eagle refuse to drop Daniel off at his cabin? Answer: The eagle wanted to play a trick.
Context: When the king's youngest son had put an end to the giant in this way, he rode back on his wolf to the giant's home. Then the prince went into the hill to get his own bride, and they all rode home together. Question: How did the king and his sons celebrate when they returned? Answer: a feast that lasted for weeks
Context: The following Thursday the white bear came to fetch his bride. So she rode on the bear's back, far, far away, until at last they came to a great rock. Question: Where did the bear take the girl? Answer: a great rock
Context: Not long after the king got into a small chariot and his bodyguards
saddled their horses with the greatest rapidity. Only, on a brick
against the wall, they had forgotten a little hunting dog. Question: What will the scholar do when the king and his bodyguards leave? Answer: look where they came from
Context: At length, one morning early, a cock began to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed to understand what he was saying. She was creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew. And as she scooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song, bidding the bones grow till they became a tree. Question: What did the youngest sister do every day? Answer: paid a visit to the tree
Context: There seemed to be a sort of scuffling noise in the back passage, as she was coming in at the front door. "It is a very odd thing that Ribby's pie was NOT in the oven when I put mine in! Question: What happened when Ribby opened the bottom oven door? Answer: There began to be a pleasing smell of baked mouse!
Context: "Oh, it is such a splendid and precious thing, that I cannot describe it," said the Mother-Toad. " "Well, I haven't got the jewel," said the smallest of the Toads; she was as ugly as a toad can be. " Question: Why did the Mother-Toad warn to take care of the bucket? Answer: for it will crush the toads to death
Context: "That's all very well, but we are not through yet," said the boy, "there is worse to come," and he told them to reef every last rag, as well as what had been left of the topsails. The last squall hit them with far more force than either of the preceding ones, the ship laid over on her side so that they thought she would not right herself again, and the breaker swept over the deck. Question: What happened when the last billet fell? Answer: They again heard a deep groan and then all was still.
Context: Under these circumstances the youth was glad to have him for a comrade, and they resumed their journey, the man as a rule going in advance and pointing out the way. After they had wandered long through various lands, over hills and over heaths, they suddenly stood before a wall of rock. Question: What will happen if the youth or comrade sit in the chair? Answer: They will be tricked.
Context: As she spoke she too stuck fast, and was not able to utter a word. When Kieva, the wife of Pryderi, found that neither her husband nor his mother returned to her, she was in such sorrow that she cared not whether she lived or died. Question: What happened after thunder was heard and a veil of darkness descended upon them? Answer: The castle vanished and they with it.
Context: After a time the father came, together with A-Sung, and made Kung a present of a hundred ounces of gold. Kung opened his eyes and saw his old home, and then he knew that his friend was not of human kind. His mother opened it and when she saw that he had brought along so charming a wife she was greatly pleased. Question: How will Kung's mother feel when she sees that he brought along his wife? Answer: pleased
Context: The wife took the box, and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached. What I have brought you is called a mirror, and whoever looks into its clear surface can see their own form reflected there. Although there are none to be found in this out of the way place, yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times. Question: What did it mean if a woman kept her mirror bright and clear? Answer: Her heart is pure and good.
Context: Then, after some time had passed, the youngest decided to set out to herd the king's hares, and told his father of his intention. Esben merely kept on saying that he wanted to go to court and serve the king, for he would not take service with any lesser master, said he. Question: How did Esben's father think he would fare as a herdsman? Answer: no worse than his brothers
Context: One of the rotten marrows came flying through the kitchen window, and hit the youngest Flopsy Bunny. SO Mr. McGregor did not get his tobacco, and Mrs. McGregor did not get her rabbit skins. Question: Why was Mr. McGregor very angry? Answer: One of the rotten marrows came flying through the kitchen window, and hit the youngest Flopsy Bunny.
Context: Once upon a time there was a prince or a duke or whatever you choose to call him, but at any rate a noble tremendously high-born, who did not want to stay at home. He at once found friends and acquaintances, no matter where he came; for whoever has a full trough can always find pigs to thrust their snouts into it. Question: What did the duke not want to do? Answer: stay at home
Context: Maidwa thought it strange that he should be so warmly received, and married instantly against his own wishes, although he could not help noticing that the chief's daughter was pretty. He wakened early, and finding the chief's daughter looking forth at the door, he spoke to her, but she gave no answer. Question: What happened after the daughter tried to reach for the moccasins? Answer: Maidwa snatched them from her hand and hung them up himself.
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: Who was chief of the black country of Ulla? Answer: Culain
Context: The old woman was ushered into the room, and after the customary bows and greetings were over, she said:  "Master, the report of your brave fight with the ogre at the Gate of Rashomon is so widely known that even your poor old nurse has heard of it. "I am very proud to think," answered the old woman, "that my master was so brave as to dare to cut off an ogre's arm. Question: Why was Watanabe disappointed? Answer: He was unable to take the monster captive.
Context: While all this was taking place the monkey was congratulating himself (as the wicked often do before their punishment comes upon them) on all he had done so neatly. He found this kind of life, however, extremely dull, accustomed as he was to the free life of the woods, and at last he said:  "No one knows that it was I who killed the crab! Question: What could the monkey not banish? Answer: the fear of the consequences should his evil deeds be discovered
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Why didn't the King of Dublin's daughter laugh for seven years? Answer: She was so melancholy.
Context: She looked until it came near, when she perceived that it was another Weendigo or Giant Cannibal. The son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken, and as the father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground. Question: What happened to the wife after the Weendigo took her away? Answer: was eaten by the Weendigo
Context: This relieved Finn very much, for, after all, he had great confidence in his wife, knowing, as he did, that she had got him out of many a quandary before. Having everything now prepared, she sent round to the neighbours and borrowed one-and-twenty iron griddles, which she took and kneaded into the hearts of one-and-twenty cakes of bread, and these she baked on the fire in the usual way, setting them aside in the cupboard according as they were done. Question: What will happen if Finn lost the middle finger on his right hand? Answer: He will be no more than a common man.
Context: Then there came up a millstone, then an egg, then a duck, then a pin, and lastly a needle, who all got up on the carriage, and were driven along. So the mice drew the carriage into the barn, the cock and the hen flew up and perched on a beam, the cat sat by the fireside, the duck settled on the water; but the egg wrapped itself in the towel, the pin stuck itself in the chair cushion, the needle jumped into the bed among the pillows, and the millstone laid itself by the door. Question: What did the egg do in Mr. Korbes's house? Answer: The egg wrapped itself in the towel.
Context: In a lonely forest, there once lived a man and his wife, who had a son. As he advanced rapidly, she ran in, and taking the hand of her son, a boy of three or four years old, she led him out. Question: Where did a man and his wife live? Answer: in a lonely forest
Context: Thus did the brave Prince Yamato Take escape out of the snare laid for him by his enemy. For his sake she counted the weariness of the long journeys and the dangers of war as nothing, and her love for her warrior husband was so great that she felt well repaid for all her wanderings if she could but hand him his sword when he sallied forth to battle, or minister to his wants when he returned weary to the camp. Question: What did Princess Ototachibana do for the sake of her husband? Answer: counted the weariness of the long journeys and the long journeys and the dangers of war as nothing.
Context: 'I hear,' he said, 'that the old witch on the island has a goat with golden horns from which hang bells that tinkle the sweetest music. All the way across the lake he thought and thought, till at length a plan came into his head which seemed as if it might do, though he knew it would be very difficult to carry out. Question: Why was it easier for Pinkel to approach the island unseen this time? Answer: There was no golden lantern to throw its beams over the water.
Context: The whole bundle of paper had been placed on the fire and was soon burning. " But when the whole was wrapped in flames, the sparks mounted up into the air, higher than the flax had ever been able to raise its little blue flowers, and they glistened as the white linen never could have glistened. Question: What happened to the words and thoughts on the page? Answer: they turned to fire
Context: When he had finished pacing round the Ring he stepped boldly on to the enchanted ground, and walked across it; and what was his astonishment to find that all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice, so that he was sore put to it to walk amongst them without treading upon them. When Earl St. Clair lifted the precious cup, they rose in the air and circled round his head, screaming with rage, and threatening to dash it from his hands with their claws; while the frozen Elves, and even their mighty King himself stirred in their sleep, and half sat up, as if to lay hands on this presumptuous intruder. Question: What did Earl St. Clair see after he finished pacing round the Ring? Answer: all the ghostly Elves and Goblins whom he had seen, were lying frozen into tiny blocks of ice
Context: He refreshed himself with a meal of the venison, and the next morning he fired another arrow. At last he threw himself upon the earth in despair, concluding that he might as well perish there as go further. Question: Why did Strong Desire throw himself upon the earth in despair? Answer: He was in great distress at night for the want of food.
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: What happened when a man came near Niall in the morning? Answer: Niall followed him till he broke the man's bones.
Context: For a long time they cast patiently, without receiving a single bite; the sun had grown low in the sky, and it seemed as if they would have to go home empty-handed, not even with a basket of roots to show; when the youth, who had baited his hook with raw meat, suddenly saw his line disappear under the water. They looked at each other with horror, cold shivers running down their spines; for though they had never beheld it, there was not a man amongst them who did not know what it was--the cub of the awful Bunyip! Question: What occurred to the man who had baited his hook with raw meat? Answer: His was dragged into the pool.
Context: my sister lingers       For her dwelling in the sky,     Where the morn, with rosy fingers,       Shall her cheeks with vermil dye. While I range the highest mountains,       Sport in valleys green and low,     Or, beside our Indian fountains,       Raise my tiny hip-hallo. Question: What did the sister's name change to? Answer: Morning Star
Context: "I hope you will be patient with me," said Momotaro; "but before I begin to pay back your goodness to me I have a request to make which I hope you will grant me above everything else." "I will let you do whatever you wish, for you are quite different to all other boys!" Question: What did Momotaro request? Answer: go away at once
Context: As the goat flew upward, the comrade swung himself up in back, and then they were off like the wind through the clouds: it was not a long journey. Suddenly they stood before a wall of rock, she knocked, and then they took their way into the interior of the hill, to the troll who was her dearest. " But this time the princess kept her nose in the air, and was so haughty and snappish that she hardly condescended to glance in the youth's direction. Question: Why was the princess haughty and snappish towards the youth? Answer: She thought he did not have the shears.
Context: Then Thomas took courage, and looked up; and lo, they were riding through a beautiful orchard, where apples and pears, dates and figs and wine-berries grew in great abundance. So poor Thomas had to restrain himself as best he could; and they rode slowly on, until they came to a tiny tree all covered with red apples. This I can give thee," she said, "and I do it gladly, for these apples are the Apples of Truth; and whoso eateth them gaineth this reward, that his lips will never more be able to frame a lie." Question: Why did the Queen of Fairies give Thomas a red apple? Answer: He could eat this fruit.
Context: It happened that the King's son gave a ball, and invited all persons of fashion to it. They were mightily delighted at this invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns, petticoats, and head-clothes as might become them. Question: Why did the prince's invitation to the ball become a new trouble for Cinderella? Answer: she ironed her sisters' linen, and plaited their ruffles
Context: The man drove off on his way, and John crossed the hill to his home. There stood the giant gate of the Jutulsberg wide open, and out of it streamed a light and radiance as of thousands of candles. Question: What did the man do when he heard the roaring in Jutulsberg? Answer: forgot what he had promised
Context: One day Isaac had put out a few miles to sea to fish, when suddenly a dark fog fell. Then he began to realize that either he was steering out to sea, or that the wind had veered, and at last he made sure the latter was the case. Question: How did Isaac keep the boat afloat? Answer: steered a careful course between and across the mountainous waves
Context: At last one morning, after the girl had been lying awake all night thinking of her husband, she said to her friend the snake:  'You have all shown me much kindness, but now I am well again, and want to go home and hear some news of my husband, and if he still mourns for me!' Now the heart of the snake was sad at her words, but he only said:  'Yes, thus it must be; go and bid farewell to my father and mother, but if they offer you a present, see that you take nothing but my father's ring and my mother's casket.' Question: What did the snake tell the girl to take? Answer: his father's ring and his mother's casket
Context: Now it chanced one day, as the king's daughter was sitting alone in her room, that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared. But the queen had the last word in the end, and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess, even though it be against her will. Question: Why did the king's daughter want to go into the forest? Answer: to forget her surpassing grief
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: Who was playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach? Answer: one youthful champion
Context: The feast over, he was next invited to the tea-ceremony room to drink a cup of tea. When the young crab had conducted the monkey to the tearoom he left him and retired. Question: Where did the monkey go after the feast was over? Answer: the tea-ceremony room
Context: But the spiritual part of Notscha, his soul, fluttered about in the air, and was driven by the wind to the cave of the Great One. It is because you are always thinking of him that he appears to you in dreams. Then Li Dsing, on the occasion of a great military drill, once came by the cliff in question, and saw the people crowding thickly about the hill like a swarm of ants. Question: How will Notscha's father feel he finds out about Notscha's shrine? Answer: angry
Context: Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there, and sickness was a thing unknown. They were all tired of their long, long lives, and longed to go to the happy land of contentment called Paradise of which the priests had told them centuries ago. Question: Why did the other people long for death? Answer: They were all tired of their long, long lives.
Context: He acquired all sorts of magic powers by means of which he extended his life-span. He agreed to give him a hundred pieces of copper daily; yet he did not pay him, and finally he owed him seven million, two hundred thousand pieces of copper. Question: What happened when Laotsze did not pay his servant? Answer: He owed him seven million, two hundred thousand pieces of copper.
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a poor tenant farmer who had a number of children whom he could feed but poorly, and had to clothe in the scantiest way. They were all handsome; but the most beautiful, after all, was the youngest daughter. Question: Who was the most beautiful? Answer: the youngest daughter
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Why did the wife let the two strange females into her lodge? Answer: It was already dark.
Context: said Per Gynt, and he poured the whole kettleful of soup over his nose. Then laughter and jibes came from every corner, and one voice said: "Now Per Gynt will be no better off than the dairy-maids in the hut at Val!" Question: Why was Per Gynt sitting in the dark? Answer: A pail of water was poured down through the chimney, smothering the fire.
Context: I took a bar of iron, and put it in the fire till it was red, and I said to the hag, "He will be howling at first, but will fall asleep presently, and do not wake him until he has slept as much as he wants. I was well satisfied, and I had no liking for delay to get myself free from the hag, and I took them on board the ship, and the child I had myself. Question: What will the man do after he treats the thief? Answer: close the door
Context: The bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare looked at him to see what he would do now. Kintaro went from one tree to another that grew along the river bank. Question: How was Kintaro able to make a bridge? Answer: He took hold of the trunk and pulled it with all his might.
Context: At the end of the seventh year he said,  "Master, my time is up. As the service is, so must the wages be," and he gave him a lump of gold as big as his head. Question: What did the master give to Hans? Answer: a lump of gold as big as his head
Context: "On reaching the shore," added the little old woman, "you must consent to be his wife; and in the evening you are to induce him to take a walk out of the village, and when you have reached a lonesome spot, use the first opportunity to cut off his head with the blade of grass." Early in the morning he left the lodge of the little old woman who makes war, which was clouded in a heavy brackish fog, so thick and heavy to breathe, that he with difficulty made his way forth. Question: Why will the Indians want to make Strong Desire their wife? Answer: Strong Desire appears to be a woman.
Context: We come from the other land to test mankind, and to try the sincerity of the living. Often we have heard the bereaved by death say that if the lost could be restored, they would devote their lives to make them happy. Question: What made the guests resolve on their departure? Answer: the angry feelings of the hunter's wife
Context: "O, yes, I know very well where the castle lies," said the North Wind. " For if we are to get there to-morrow, we must have the whole day before us." Question: What did the maiden need to do because there is a whole day before them tomorrow? Answer: stay there over night
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: Why did the youngest princess stop her cries and complaints? Answer: She bethought of what he said soon after their marriage.
Context: When Murmur Goose-Egg had nearly finished threshing, the enemy broke into the land, and war began. Then the king told him to gather people about him, and go to meet the foe, and do battle with him, for he thought the enemy would probably kill him. Question: How did the king plan to get rid of Murmur? Answer: sent him to go battle the foe
Context: And, to the young man's horror, as soon as their lips had met, an awful change came over her. She saw the poor man's astonishment and terror, and she burst into a mocking laugh. Question: What happened after they kissed? Answer: An awful change came over her.
Context: Then came a man from Canton, Lo-Dsi-Tschun, with his two brothers, who said that his ancestors had been related to the Dragon-King. Hence they were well liked by the dragons and well known to them. Question: What did Lo-Dsi-Tschun and his two brothers bring with them? Answer: the stone which compelled the dragons to do their will
Context: They shook their horns and their shocks of red hair fiercely, and rushed to put on tiger skin trousers to make themselves look more terrible. They then brought out great iron bars and ran to where the pheasant perched over their heads, and tried to knock him down. Question: Why did the devils put on tiger skin trousers? Answer: to make themselves took more terrible
Context: At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him, and poured out questions as to what had happened, and why he looked like that. Question: Why did the queen and king lie about the prince's wife? Answer: They did not want to tell him the truth.
Context: On the following day the comrade said that now they must get on their way. The dower supplied by the troll was worth more than the king's whole country, and they did not know how they were to take it home. What the goats could not carry, had to be left at the castle. Question: What happened because the comrade had brought all the valuables the troll had left to the castle? Answer: The castle court-yard was so full they could scarcely get through.
Context: "When our lords have once been seized with homesickness, then we may
hold them no longer," said they. On the following day they prepared a farewell banquet, gave the
scholars magic wine to take along with them and said:

"We will see one another again. Question: What did the maidens do after the scholars were overcome by homesickness? Answer: prepared a farewell banquet, gave the scholars magic wine to take along with them and said: "We will see one another again. Now go your way!"
Context: If I were only away and up above again," thought he, but he said nothing. I am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding, and I will hurry all I can. Question: How did the youth feel when the rat allowed him to go above? Answer: excited
Context: Prince Toyonari, after some weeks, came home, and was told by his wife that his daughter Hime had done something wrong and had run away for fear of being punished. One day, trying to forget his terrible worry, he called all his men together and told them to make ready for a several days' hunt in the mountains. Question: Who will Prince Toyonari find in the mountains? Answer: Hase-Hime
Context: When they drew up the nets they were rejoiced to see the meshes shining white, all over, with the glittering prey. In this changeful pastime the cousin ran his length, and then he fell away, murmuring parts of his song or story, into a silvery sleep; with the moon gliding through the branches and gilding his face. Question: How did Wassamo and his cousin feel when they drew up the nets? Answer: rejoiced
Context: At length the next day he was seen coming across the valley, and Oonagh knew that it was time to commence operations. This, to be sure, was wormwood to Finn--I mean going into the cradle in such a cowardly manner--but he knew Oonagh very well; and finding that he had nothing else for it, with a very rueful face he gathered himself into it and lay snug, as she had desired him. "I am," says she, "and I have no reason, I hope, to be ashamed of my husband." Question: How will Finn feel pretending to be a child in a cradle? Answer: ridiculous
Context: Then he opened the shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke small little bits of sticks for the rowers' seats. Some of the shells got broken, some remained whole, and when all were ready Lasse had twelve boats. Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water, and they floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over the waves of the ocean. Question: What did Little Lasse forget? Answer: not to get into his father's boat
Context: The captain asked what sort of nonsense this might be, and whether he had ever heard of a cabin-boy's being entrusted with the command of a ship. But the boy answered that was all one to him; if they did not care to buy the three cords of birch-wood, and obey him, as though he were captain, for the space of a single day--the captain and crew should know which day it was to be in advance--then he would set foot on the ship no more, and far less would he ever dirty his hands with pitch and tar on her again. Question: How did the captain feel about the cabin-boy's request? Answer: confused
Context: "Yes, but I exchanged the fowl for a sack of shriveled apples." But now I can lend her ten, or a whole sackful, for which I'm very glad. Question: What did the wife want to prepare for dinner? Answer: fried eggs and bacon with sweet herbs
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: What did the wife order the cook to do at six o'clock in the morning? Answer: have breakfast ready
Context: Now when the battle was over and the youth had disappeared, the courtier crawled down from his tree, and threatened to kill the princess if she did not say before all the people that he, and none other, had rescued her. But Silverwhite's dogs overcame those of the troll, and the youth killed the troll himself with his sword. Question: Why was the courtier acclaimed as the greatest of heroes? Answer: He pretended to have saved the two princesses.
Context: They were real wampum, white and blue, shining and beautiful; and the young man, placing them in his bosom, set off; but as he did not seem quite steady in his belief of the strange woman's story, the dog Spirit-Iron, taking his arm, kept close by his side, and gave him many words of encouragement as they went along. He seemed to be so very ill that the Toad-Woman at length asked what she could do for him. Question: How did Spirit-Iron support the young man? Answer: took the young man's arm
Context: Full of surprise the woman jumped up and pulled the bar away from the door. 'No, no, you shan't do that,' cried the king, 'or if you do, it will be your own fault. Question: Why did the king pretend to be in too great of a hurry? Answer: He did not want to make the couple feel ashamed for having an empty house.
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Three or four other bees
put their heads out, and buzzed fiercely. He was sitting all over a small rocking-chair, twiddling his thumbs and
smiling, with his feet on the fender. Question: Why didn't Mrs. Tittlemouse want to ask Mr. Jackson for help? Answer: He never wiped his feet.
Context: Then he feared that Rose of Evening might regard him with disgust because he was no longer a human being. Then she spread the report in the village that the body which had been found in the river had not been that of her son at all. Question: Who was a departed spirit? Answer: Aduan
Context: His host tried to persuade the warrior to stay a few days, but Hidesato insisted on going home, saying that he had now finished what he had come to do, and must return. The Dragon King and his family were all very sorry to have him leave so soon, but since he would go they begged him to accept a few small presents (so they said) in token of their gratitude to him for delivering them forever from their horrible enemy the centipede. Question: What did Hidesato leave with? Answer: a few small presents
Context: Undoubtedly he had given every giant in Ireland a considerable beating, barring Finn M'Coul himself. Finn, however, had a strong disinclination to meet a giant who could make a young earthquake or flatten a thunderbolt when he was angry. Question: What did Finn do to avoid Far Rua? Answer: kept dodging about from place to place
Context: But Earl St. Clair forgot that he carried a Talisman which his companion lacked, that enabled him to see things as they really were, while the other's eyes were holden, and he was startled and amazed when Earl Gregory said sharply, "Thy mind hath gone mad over this Elfin King. And because I love a gallant horseman, and would fain learn his name and degree, I will follow him till I find him, even if it be at the world's end." Question: What did the weird Goblins do after they saw Earl Gregory? Answer: beckoned to him with their skinny fingers
Context: They went out into the woods, and at the close of the afternoon they brought back a great spoil of meat of all kinds. As the young man appeared to doubt, she added, "Feign yourself sick when you go home to her lodge; and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails you, say that you wish to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful brother the dog, in striving to save you, tore off these pieces which I show you." Question: Where did the young man visit the stranger? Answer: at her lodge of cedar-boughs
Context: At last, after wandering in an unknown region for many days, he met a hunter. "Can you tell me," asked Sentaro, "where the hermits live who have the Elixir of Life?" Question: Why was Sentaro irritated? Answer: The hunter gave him an odd answer.
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan. Question: What happened to those who drank the "Elixir of Life"? Answer: lived forever
Context: When they were all assembled and seated in a circle, the old chief took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians around, to see if any thing would happen when they smoked. From that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor, and as soon as White Feather had, at the request of the company, faithfully recounted his history, the old chief, who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived, ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs; which being done, the whole six giants were at an end, and never troubled that neighborhood again, forever after. Question: Who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived? Answer: the old chief
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: Why did no one know what happened to Dechtire? Answer: Dechtire turned into a bird.
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Who lived down by the iron forge? Answer: a poor widow woman
Context: So it went on for three days, and Dschang Liang's patience was not exhausted. Then the old man was satisfied, brought forth the Book of Hidden Complements, and gave it to him. " Question: What will happen when Dschang Liang takes the book from the old man? Answer: Dschang Liang will aid the ancestor of the Han dynasty to conquer the empire.
Context: As Dais-Imid stood looking at him--for he had been all this time invisible--he thought:  "I will let him have a view of me." With this speech of the little man, Manabozho grabbed at him; but when he thought to have had him in his hand, he was gone. " Question: How will Manabozho feel about not being able to catch the little man? Answer: angry
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Why did the wolf grow weak? Answer: He did not get a morsel to eat half the time.
Context: As he was lying there, he heard the trampling of a horse's hooves, as it forced its way through the bushes; and, looking up, he saw the most beautiful lady that he had ever seen coming riding towards him on a grey palfrey. Men call me Queen, but it is of a far other country; for I am the Queen of Fairy-land, and not the Queen of Heaven." Question: Who was the most beautiful lady that Thomas had ever seen? Answer: The Queen of Fairy-Land
Context: He, to his horror, recognised his own hunting knife with which he had struck the seal in the morning, and which had been carried off by the wounded animal. They implored him not to put himself about, for no harm would befall him, and they would love him all their lives long if he would only do what they asked him. Question: Why did the seal catcher beg for mercy? Answer: He believed that the seals were angry at him for harming his comrade.
Context: As she was eagerly telling her godmother whatever had passed at the ball, her two sisters knocked at the door, which Cinderella ran and opened. cried she, gaping, rubbing her eyes and stretching herself as if she had been just waked out of her sleep; she had not, however, any manner of inclination to sleep since they went from home. Question: Who came knocking at the door? Answer: her two sisters
Context: Now when the giant had been sleeping quite a while, he began to stretch himself on his bench. " But he could not see who had called him, and so he called out to the Master Girl. Question: Why did the giant not realize that the Master Girl and king's son had escaped? Answer: The giant thought the voice was the Master Girl.
Context: The men took the girdle and gave it to Karin upon their return home. No sooner had she done so than the oak tore itself out of the ground, and flew to the North, borne away by the storm-wind. Question: What happened because the oak tore itself out of the ground? Answer: One of the best springs in Stommen flows from one of the root-holes to this very day.
Context: "Send out all my soldiers and horsemen," said the king, "tear down the castle instantly, hang whoever built it, and see to this at once." Question: What did the king want the soldiers and horsemen to do at once? Answer: tear down the castle instantly and hang whoever built it.
Context: Jack my Hedgehog continued to herd his pigs, and they increased in number till there were so many that the forest seemed full of them. Jack my Hedgehog mounted his cock, and driving his pigs before him into the village, he let every one kill as many as they chose, and such a hacking and hewing of pork went on as you might have heard for miles off. Question: Why did Jack my Hedgehog send a message to his father telling him to clear the stables and outhouses? Answer: He was going to bring such an enormous herd that all who would might kill what they chose.
Context: I must thank you for coming to visit me: I have been expecting you for a long time. I am to receive a large dower, and am not yet ready for the wedding. Question: What did the rat tell the youth to do while he waited? Answer: sit down and help himself
Context: He found himself, according to his ideas, in the land of Topsyturvydom. All the things to which he had been accustomed as food they rejected. Question: What did the rich people do when merchants arrived? Answer: rushed to them to buy poisons
Context: When he found himself safe on the ground, he peeped cautiously over the edge of the cliff to see if there were any seals lying on the rocks below. The seal catcher was now thoroughly frightened, for he felt sure that some evil was about to befall him. Question: What will the stranger do so that the seal catcher will find seals? Answer: push him into the sea
Context: When the cat had gone a bit further, she met the mother bear, who was clawing at the tree-stems so that the bark flew, so angry was she to have lost her little one. I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush and the fox, the sly-boots, and the hopping hare and the wild wolf and the little bear brown-coat, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said she, and seized the mother bear and ate her, too. Question: What did the mother bear do because she was angry? Answer: clawing at the tree-stems so that the bark flew
Context: But the young man, with the quickness of a bird, had flown to the top of the lodge and perched himself on the highest pole, having been changed into a beautiful robin red-breast. He looked down upon his father with pity beaming in his eyes, and addressed him as follows: Question: How did the robin feel when it looked down upon its father? Answer: pity
Context: I wandered and wandered about there, without knowing where I wandered, until at last I got into a big bog. Down it came with a pounce, and looked at me full in the face; and what was it but an eagle?--as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdom of Kerry! Question: What happened after Daniel sang the Ullagone? Answer: The moon grew black.
Context: During the first half of the eighteenth century, several large estates in Schonen were the property of the family of Barnekow. A widow at twenty-nine, she herself took over the management of her large properties. Question: How did Margaret Barnekow give evidence of invincible courage? Answer: She herself took over the management of her large properties.
Context: And what had happened to her sister happened to her, she had to seat herself, and could not get up again. This he wished to have, and promised he would release her from the chair if she would give it to him. The hat he must have, but the old witch would not part with it, since it was her Three-Sisters Hat, and if she gave it away she would be thoroughly unhappy. Question: How did the witch feel when the comrade asked for the Three-Sisters Ball? Answer: upset
Context: Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo, a very remote part of Japan even in these days, a man and his wife. The visit to the temple when she was just thirty days old, her proud mother carrying her, robed in ceremonial kimono, to be put under the patronage of the family's household god. Question: Who was the joy and pride of both their lives? Answer: daughter
Context: Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough; but my right eye began to smart, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and then stared, for never in all my life was I so frightened. Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly. Question: What happened after the neighbor turned to leave the castle? Answer: Molly told the neighbor how to save her.
Context: Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" But as they were amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deep growl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after that one yet more savage; but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus Mac Roy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "It is Setanta." Question: What did the great mastiff guard? Answer: all the smith's property outside the house
Context: There was once a Fox and a Wolf, who set up house together in a cave near the sea-shore. Although you may not think so, they got on very well for a time, for they went out hunting all day, and when they came back at night they were generally too tired to do anything but to eat their supper and go to bed. Question: Where did the Fox and the Wolf live? Answer: in a cave near the sea-shore
Context: The old people were very active and industrious; they were never idle for even a single hour. The old man would read aloud about Africa, with its great forests and the wild elephants, while his wife would listen attentively, stealing a glance now and then at the clay elephants which served as flowerpots. " Question: Why did the lamp wish for wax taper? Answer: so it could share what he was seeing with her
Context: "I felt quite light, my cheerfulness had returned, and I was the happiest of mortals. Next morning--correctly speaking, it was noon, for I slept remarkably late that day--I found myself still sitting there, in happy consciousness that my former wish had been a foolish one. Question: how does the man feel now? Answer: happy
Context: "Now you can go to the devil, and fetch the tribute from him," said the king. But since he was there, he would stay there, for he had to take home the tribute, and he had plenty of time to wait. Question: What was Murmur sent to do at the devil's place? Answer: fetch the tribute from him
Context: "Far away," continued the statue in a low musical voice, "far away in a little street there is a poor house. One of the windows is open, and through it I can see a woman seated at a table. Question: Why did the Happy Prince ask the Swallow to be his messenger instead of doing it himself? Answer: His feet were fastened to the pedestal and he could not move.
Context: The next morning the giant got up very early, and went into the forest. And she picked the loveliest flowers she could find and strewed them over the threshold which they had put to rights again and when the time drew near for the giant's return, the king's son crept under the bed once more. Question: What reason did the princess give the giant for the strewn flowers? Answer: She was fond of the giant and wanted to decorate the place where his heart lay.
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " So the fellows gathered round Tom, and the bad man aggravated him till he told them he didn't care a pinch of snuff for the whole bilin' of 'em. says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." Question: What did the red-headed fellow say Tom wanted? Answer: to make hares of the king's best men
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: Why was the farmer not completely happy? Answer: He had no children.
Context: Seven years had passed, and the king was expected home from the war. They let them down from the tower at night, to seek their fortune in the wide, wide world. Question: Why were both girls terrified? Answer: The king was expected home from the war.
Context: 'The town is easy to get into, but more difficult to get out of,' sighed Hyacinthia. ' The first day passed, and then the second, and at last the third also, but Prince Milan did not return, for he had not taken Hyacinthia's advice. Question: What did Hyacinthia warn the Prince not to do? Answer: kiss the child
Context: Have you ever given yourself an account why you bloomed, and how your blooming comes about--why just in that way and in no other?" " The sun shone and warmed me, and the air refreshed me; I drank the clear dew and the invigorating rain. Question: What 2 things does the rose tree drink? Answer: clear dew and rain
Context: She shut herself up in the nut-cellar while Mr. Jackson pulled out the Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: When he stood before the door at home, he turned around; and there lay many, many hundred yards of the finest linen, finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun. And when she saw the linen, stretching as far as she could see, and then a bit, she could not believe her eyes, until the youth told her how it all happened. Question: What will the youth and his mother do with the wool? Answer: make clothes
Context: "Thank goodness, here comes one of my own class, with whom I can talk," said the ball, examining the gilded top. " I was once engaged to a swallow; but I fell in here from the gutter under the roof, and I have lain here more than five years, and have been thoroughly drenched. Question: What was the ball made out of? Answer: Morocco
Context: Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the Emperor Yuhi. This rebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which he fought to this end. Question: Why did the dense fog leave the royal army confused? Answer: The army could not see.
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: How did the Weendigo feel towards the family? Answer: gloomy
Context: Suddenly he heard a hideous cry from the stern of the boat, and felt certain that it was the drang, who was singing his death-song. Then he prayed God to guard his wife and children, for he thought his last hour had come. Question: What did Isaac hear from the stern of the boat? Answer: a hideous cry
Context: "Look there," he said, and pointed with a twisted finger, to a leathern purse, or sporran, which was hanging to one of the posts of a wooden bedstead in the corner. He was almost frightened out of his wits by seeing a tiny shrivelled face crowned by a red pirnie, looking over the edge of the sporran. Question: What did the second old man do when Farquhar believed his father was dead long ago? Answer: pointed with a twisted finger, to a leathern purse, or sporran
Context: When seamen lose their course among wind and waves and darkling
clouds, they pray devoutly to the Queen of Heaven. When she does
this the wind departs for the North and South, and the waves grow
smooth. Question: What did the seamen do when they lost their course? Answer: pray devoutly to the Queen of Heaven
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: What did Moti do after he woke up? Answer: put his hand under his pillow
Context: Take her up before you on your horse, and ride into town and marry her. So the wedding was celebrated, and when the dishes made the round, the bridegroom went out into the room where the table had been set for the old folk from the mountain. Question: Why did the dragoon do as the old man said? Answer: He was scared.
Context: So everybody was pleased when Sally Henny Penny sent out a printed poster to say that she was going to re-open the shop--"Henny's Opening Sale! Question: How did the villagers feel when Sally Henny Penny sent out a printed poster to say that she was going to reopen the shop? Answer: pleased
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig. Go to the devil," said the man, "he will be the first to rid you of it." Question: Who did the man say to take the pig to? Answer: the devil
Context: "Why, you are a splendid workman," said the king, "but tell me, how much do you really eat at once," he continued, "for I am sure you are hungry?" If he were to have enough porridge, they would have to take twelve tons of meal to make it. Question: Why did murmur go out into the field? Answer: to call the help
Context: "Faith," said Finn, "beautiful; and how are you, Oonagh--and how did you sport your figure during my absence, my bilberry?" "Why, avourneen," said Finn, putting in his answer in the proper way, "never the thing but the purest of love and affection for yourself. Finn spent two or three happy days with Oonagh, and felt himself very comfortable considering the dread he had of Far Rua. Question: Where did Finn prophesize Far Rua was at? Answer: Dungannon
Context: In a little lodge at a beautiful spot on a lake shore, alone with his sister, lived a boy remarkable for the smallness of his stature. Many large rocks were scattered around their habitation, and it had a very wild and out-of-the-way look. Question: Where did the boy live along with his sister? Answer: in a little lodge at a beautiful spot on a lake shore
Context: But the wily Fox was fond of butter, and he made up his mind that he would have it all to himself. It behoveth us to have foresight, and to lay up in store for the spring, when the grain is all threshed, and the stackyards are bare, and the poultry have gone to market. Question: Why was the Wolf reluctant to agree with the Fox? Answer: He was thinner and hungrier than the Fox.
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: Who did the king meet around the corner? Answer: a mighty decent young man
Context: The father coming in the evening to visit the lodge of his daughters, discovered what had happened. He immediately sent word to his son that his sisters had been slain, and that there were no more spoils to be had, which greatly inflamed the young man's temper, especially the woeful announcement at the close. Question: Who did the brother blame for his sisters' deaths? Answer: Ownee
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: What were the young nobles of Ulster taught? Answer: martial exercises and the military art
Context: The next morning, when the King awoke, what do you think he saw? So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground with the rod, and the next morning the garden was there. Question: What did the King do when the garden was there? Answer: gave his consent for the marriage
Context: The Prince returned to his room in despair; then the Princess Hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee, and asked him, 'Why so sad, Prince Milan?' With these words she breathed on the window, and her breath froze on the pane. Question: What happened when the horse recognized his master? Answer: It neighed loudly with joy.
Context: On board a steamer I once met an elderly man, with such a merry face that, if it was really an index of his mind, he must have been the happiest fellow in creation. He had all his company with him in a large box, for he was the proprietor of a puppet-show. Question: how did the elderly man feel? Answer: happy
Context: For many days life went on like a beautiful dream to the charcoal-burner and his wife. He smiled as he glanced at the man, who was getting rosier and plumper each day. 'I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen,' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled. cried he; 'are you making yourself miserable because of that? Question: Why was the wife so silent? Answer: She was thinking about what was inside the soup-tureen.
Context: 'Let us take it and row over to the island, where there must be a house,' said the eldest brother; 'and perhaps they will give us food and shelter.' The young men's hearts rejoiced as they thought that at last they would be able to rest their weary limbs, and they entered the hut, but were amazed to see an ugly old woman inside, wrapped in a cloak of gold which lighted up the whole house. Question: How did the brothers feel when they saw the witch? Answer: uneasy
Context: Even the engravings, which hung in frames on the wall, turned round in their excitement. And as the game was now to begin, all were invited to take part in it, even the children's wagon, which certainly belonged to the coarser playthings. " Question: What did the wagon say? Answer: they can't all be noble, some have to be workers
Context: "It is time to mount and ride, Thomas," she said, "if thou wouldst ever see the fair Castle of Ercildoune again." Thou spokest of seven long years, Lady," he exclaimed, "and I have been here but three days." Question: Why couldn't Thomas stay in Fairy-land any longer? Answer: Every seventh year an Evil Spirit came from the Regions of Darkness, and carried back with him one of their followers.
Context: 'This will do very well,' thought Moti as they whirled in at the entrance. cried Moti, with his mouth full of rice, 'it's my horse; I paid you fifty pieces of silver for it--quite a bargain, I'm sure!' Question: Why did Moti want to keep the horse? Answer: He paid fifty pieces of silver for it.
Context: When the monk had gone a little further, he met one who rode an armored steed. Last night the Lord of the Heavens gave me a triple command, and that is the reason I have hurried down from the skies. Question: What will the old Buddhist monk do when he meets the stranger? Answer: reply that he has seen nothing.
Context: One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf. Question: Why did the toad take Thumbelina? Answer: She wanted have a beautiful wife for her son.
Context: He was thankful to the Great Spirit for this act of goodness, and in his heart he felt assured that in time the boy would show great virtue, and in some way avenge him on the wicked Weendigo who had destroyed the companion of his lodge. The hunter grew at ease in his spirit, and gave all of the time he could spare from the chase to the society of the two children; but, what affected him the most, both of his sons, although they were well-formed and beautiful, grew no more in stature, but remained children still. Question: What did the hunter notice affected him most regarding the two boys? Answer: They remained children still.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: What did the Abbot of Inisfalen do to the bird when he decided to leave? Answer: blessed the little white singing-bird
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: What happened while Sylvia was with Iris? Answer: Iris became seriously ill.
Context: Watanabe sprang back and was unable to move for a moment, so great was his astonishment; but recognizing the ogre who had attacked him at the Gate of Rashomon, he determined with his usual courage to put an end to him this time. He seized his sword, drew it out of its sheath in a flash, and tried to cut the ogre down. Question: What did Watanabe do when he realized it was the ogre? Answer: seized his sword and tried to cut the ogre down
Context: THERE were once upon a time a King and a Queen who lived happily together, and they had twelve children, all of whom were boys. Then he ordered twelve coffins to be made, and filled them with shavings, and placed a little pillow in each. Question: How did the Queen feel about the fate of her sons? Answer: sad
Context: When the day came, the bracket bull said, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough--that's the last luck you have. When you'll see me dead, go and cut a strip of skin of the back and a strip of the stomach off me, and make a belt of it, and at any time at all there will be any hard pinch on you, you shall have my power." Question: When did the other bull have to meet the bracket bull? Answer: to-morrow by twelve o'clock
Context: Suddenly he heard a laugh It was double, or the one must be the perfect echo of the other. To Wassamo there appeared to be two persons at no great distance. His cousin seemed lost to all earthly sense and sound; for he lay unmoved, smiling, in the calm light of the moon. Question: What made the cousin wake up? Answer: a gentle sound of music and soft voices accompanying Wassamo and the women's vanishing
Context: There were once five-and-twenty tin soldiers, who were all brothers, for they had been made out of the same old tin spoon. They shouldered arms and looked straight before them, and wore a splendid uniform, red and blue. Question: How many tin soldiers are there? Answer: 25
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Why did the King set forth from his capital? Answer: to make a journey through his kingdom
Context: The cousin of Wassamo recovered heart, and sang once more his sad or mirthful chants, just as the humor was upon him; but he kept close by Wassamo, and watched him in all his movements. He made it a point to ask many questions of the country he came from; some of which his cousin replied to, but others were left entirely in the dark. Question: What did the wife tell her husband before lying down? Answer: "No one but yourself must pass on this side of the lodge."
Context: 'I shall row out a little way--only a very little way,' he thought. The pea-shell boats had travelled so far that they only looked like little specks on the ocean. ' The oars were locked up in the boat-house, and Little Lasse had not noticed that the boat was empty. Question: What did Little Lasse decide to do after he got into his father's boat? Answer: row out a little way
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: Why did the people not know who the champion was? Answer: The lad was in disguise.
Context: The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. This he purposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when he expected to meet the third robber Takeru. Question: Where did Yamato pass on his way to the capitol? Answer: Idum
Context: "I'll catch on behind," said Miss Muffet, gleefully, "just as I've seen the boys do in the city. By and by she lay back upon the straw and fell asleep; and the farmer, who did not know she was in his cart, drove on for many miles, until at last he stopped at a small wooden farm-house, and jumped to the ground. Question: Where did the farmer stop the cart? Answer: a small wooden farm-house
Context: Next day the weather was perfectly delicious: the sun shone all over the green docks, and the mother Duck and all her family came out, and down to the moat. The water went over their heads, but they were up again in a moment and swam beautifully. Question: What did the mother duck say she would do after she saw the ugly grey duckling was swimming with the other ducklings? Answer: take the ugly duckling out into the world and introduced him to the duck-yard
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. This is the third time I have tried to sow dissension between them. "Well," said the woman, "if that will help, I will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it, for then he always takes a little noon-day nap." Question: Who was responsible for the lack of peace in the house? Answer: Kitta Grau
Context: "As he is no longer beautiful he is no longer useful," said the Art Professor at the University. Then they melted the statue in a furnace, and the Mayor held a meeting of the Corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal. Question: What did they do to the Happy Prince statue when he was no longer beautiful? Answer: pulled down the statue
Context: One day, as usual, Kintaro went up into the mountains, followed by the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare. After walking for some time up hill and down dale and over rough roads, they suddenly came out upon a wide and grassy plain covered with pretty wild flowers. Question: How did Kintaro and the animals feel about the field? Answer: satisfied
Context: Now the Prince ascribed his escape entirely to the virtue of the sword of Murakumo, and to the protection of Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess of Ise, who controls the wind and all the elements and insures the safety of all who pray to her in the hour of danger. Lifting the precious sword he raised it above his head many times in token of his great respect, and as he did this he re-named it Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi or the Grass-Cleaving Sword, and the place where he set fire to the grass round him and escaped from death in the burning prairie, he called Yaidzu. Question: Who did the Prince say was responsible for his escape? Answer: the sword of Murakumo
Context: As the goat flew upward, the comrade swung himself up in back, and then they were off like the wind through the clouds: it was not a long journey. Suddenly they stood before a wall of rock, she knocked, and then they took their way into the interior of the hill, to the troll who was her dearest. " Question: Why did the princess not want to be with the new suitor? Answer: She was in love with someone else.
Context: It was not worth much, but it was very well played, and all the characters turned their painted sides to the audience, for they were made only to be seen on one side. The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much. Question: What did the money-pig decide to do for one of the players? Answer: add them to his will
Context: Then he went down to the shore and sat on a sand-pile, and when he had sat there long enough, he wished that a ship might lie out in the fjord, completely equipped with masts and sails and all that goes with them, and that it might resemble the ship already lying there in every particular. "That is all very fine," said the king, "but you must stand yet another test. Question: Why did the youth sit on a sand-pile before working? Answer: to pretend he was building the ship
Context: The next time the fish swam by, she put out her hand and caught him. Then she ran along the grassy path till she came to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rocks into a basin. Now the girl did not tell her sisters about the fish, but every day she saved half of her rice to give him, and called him softly in a little song she had made for herself. Question: Where did the youngest sister put her pet fish? Answer: to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rocks into a basin
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. Question: Where was the son obliged to go? Answer: out on a mountain
Context: "Now I am mounting straight up to the sun," said a voice in the flames; and it was as if a thousand voices echoed the words as the flames darted up through the chimney and went out at the top. Then a number of tiny beings, as many as the flowers on the flax had been, and invisible to mortal eyes, floated above the children. Question: Why couldn't the children see the tiny beings? Answer: they were invisible to mortal eyes
Context: ONCE or twice something moved about with a rustle and a splash amongst the rushes at the side of the pond. AND a shoal of other little fishes put their heads out, and laughed at Mr. Jeremy Fisher. Question: What fish did Mr. Jeremy think he got? Answer: a minnow
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: What did Aspenclog want in exchange for the leg? Answer: a bushel of money
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: What was the woman's name? Answer: Hyacinthia
Context: "You must call the raven," said the wolf, and that is what the king's son did. And the raven came at once, and flew right down with the key, and now the prince could enter the church. Now the prince again did not know how he was to get hold of it. " Question: How was the raven able to retrieve the key? Answer: He could fly.
Context: "You must think it strange that I want to go away," said Momotaro, "because I have not yet told you my reason. I must go and conquer them and bring back all the plunder of which they have robbed this land. Question: How were the band of devils disloyal to the Emperor? Answer: They disobey his laws.
Context: At midnight of the seventh day, as Sentaro knelt in the temple, the door of the innermost shrine flew open. A hermit must cut himself off from the world so that his heart may become as pure as gold and free from every earthly desire. Question: What happened at midnight of the seventh day? Answer: The door of the innermost shrine flew open and Jofuku appeared.
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: What did the prince warn the youngest princess? Answer: whenever she began to tire of him, or ceased to have faith in him, they would be parted for ever, and he'd be obliged to marry the witch's daughter
Context: Lisa ate, Aina ate, and in a little while their baskets were full. They had never been so far in the great wood before, they could not find any road nor path, and soon the girls noticed that they had lost their way. Question: What happened after Aina and Lisa decided to go home? Answer: They got lost.
Context: One afternoon her mother, who happened to be at home for an hour, suddenly thought of her little daughter; so she rang the bell and asked for Nurse Holloweg. "And very good advice it was, too," remarked the Nurse to one of the maids; "for I feel as if I needed a change myself." Question: What happened when Miss Muffet's mother suddenly thought of her daughter? Answer: She rang the bell and asked for Nurse Holloweg.
Context: 'I certainly think that there will not be more than two,' said Jonas, 'there are never more than two when they slay children and rams. 'But, you see, Jonas,' said Walter, 'if there are two, it might still happen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg. Question: What was Walter worried about the wolves tearing? Answer: his new trousers
Context: It is not remarkably interesting, but for once you may as well listen to it. It was this very evening at its post for the last time, giving light to the street. Question: How does the street lamp feel on its last night of service? Answer: sad
Context: The next time the fish swam by, she put out her hand and caught him. Then she ran along the grassy path till she came to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rocks into a basin. Now the girl did not tell her sisters about the fish, but every day she saved half of her rice to give him, and called him softly in a little song she had made for herself. Question: Why did the fish gobble up the rice greedily? Answer: He had never tasted anything so nice.
Context: This was the moment for which the brave Prince had been waiting. Ere he could reach the tent door the Prince was at his heel, his garments were clutched by a hand of iron, and a dagger flashed before his eyes and he lay stabbed to the earth, dying but not yet dead. Question: Why did Yamato use a disguise to attack the chiefs? Answer: It would be easier to attack.
Context: ONCE upon a time there were five women who were standing in a field, mowing. And suddenly they saw a goose-egg of quite unheard-of size, well-nigh as large as a man's head. " Question: How did the women feel to not have children? Answer: sad
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: Who stepped out of the peach? Answer: a beautiful child
Context: It was lucky that the horse was sure-footed and knew the road, for his bridle hung loose on his neck, and his master took no heed of the way he was going. When the farm-house was reached, the man led the animal to the stable, and then went to look for his son. Question: How did the son feel after his father kicked him out? Answer: sad
Context: Later on Li Dsing and his three sons, Gintscha, Mutscha and Notscha, aided King Wu of the Dschou dynasty to destroy the tyrant Dschou-Sin. But the Great One carried him into his cave, healed his wound and gave him three goblets of the wine of the gods to drink, and three fire-dates to eat. Question: What happened to Notscha after he drank three goblets of the wine and ate three fire-dates? Answer: He suddenly heard a crash at his left side and another arm grew out from it.
Context: Great indeed was Hase-Hime's fear and astonishment when her father sent for her and told her what was required of her. Heavy, indeed, was the duty that was laid on her young shoulders-that of saving the Emperor's life by the merit of her verse. Question: What was the poem written on? Answer: a leaflet of paper heavily flecked with gold-dust
Context: "It is time to mount and ride, Thomas," she said, "if thou wouldst ever see the fair Castle of Ercildoune again." Thou spokest of seven long years, Lady," he exclaimed, "and I have been here but three days." Question: Why did Thomas only have to stay in Fairy-land for three days instead of seven years? Answer: Time passed quickly in Fairy-land.
Context: She directed him to put in his girdle a blade of scented sword-grass, and to proceed the next morning to the banks of the lake, which was no other than that over which the Red Head reigned. She said, that as soon as the Red Head heard of this he would come for her in his own canoe, in which she must embark. As they approached the shore, Strong Desire saw that the ribs of the sorcerer's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes, whose heads pointed outward to guard him from his enemies. Question: Why did Strong Desire decline the proposals of marriage? Answer: He was a man.
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: How did the hunter spend his evenings? Answer: in relating to his wife the incidents that had befallen him
Context: For three days they flew straight as an arrow, until they came to scattered houses, to villages, and to cities. Upon the fourth day they reached the great metropolis, and hovered over the streets until a carriage rolled along with a great white bear robe thrown over the back seat. The king's great battle was upon the seventh day, and they must fly swiftly to reach the Polar regions by that time. Question: What will the King of the Polar Bears do when the gulls are unable to bring his hide before the fight? Answer: will resolve to fight bravely without it
Context: "Why," said she, "that's Finn's bread--the only bread he ever eats when at home; but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there. "I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he to Oonagh, "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer." Question: What did Oonagh give Finn when he was in the cradle? Answer: a cake that had no griddle in it
Context: While sleeping, the sun beat so hot upon him that it not only singed his bird-skin coat, but it so shrivelled and shrunk and tightened it upon the little boy's body, as to wake him up. On coming home he gave an account of his misfortune to his sister, and bitterly bewailed the spoiling of his new coat. Question: Why didn't the boy eat? Answer: bitterly bewailed the spoiling of his new coat
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a poor tenant farmer who had a number of children whom he could feed but poorly, and had to clothe in the scantiest way. They were all handsome; but the most beautiful, after all, was the youngest daughter. Question: What did all the children look like? Answer: handsome
Context: One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf. Question: Where did the old toad live with her son? Answer: a great wide stream, with slippery and marshy banks
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said the cat, and seized the weasel and ate him up. Question: What was the weasel doing when the cat came to a stone-pile? Answer: looking about him
Context: After talking with them a little while, he discovered that whenever he addressed the one on his left hand, the tree would tremble as before and settle down to its former place; but when he addressed the one on his right hand, it would again shoot upward. Onwee then descended, and learning that these sisters had a brother living with their father, who had shared all together in the spoils of all such as the wicked sisters had betrayed, and who would now pursue him for having put an end to their wicked profits, Onwee set off at random, not knowing whither he went. Question: What did Ownee notice whenever he addressed the sister on his left hand? Answer: The tree would tremble as before and settle down to its former place
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: What did the hare do because he wanted to go to Inaba? Answer: go out and sit on the shore and look longingly over the water
Context: "Brothers," he said, "I have invited you to partake with me of the offerings made by the mortals on earth, which have been brought by our relation," pointing to Wassamo. " The tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company. They filled their pipes--and huge pipes they were--and such clouds they blew, that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night, in all the country round about, several hours before its time. They asked for his wife, and Wassamo informed them that she had tarried at home to look after a son, a fine little Sand-Spirit, who had been born to them since his return. Question: What will the Spirits do after bearing off their tobacco-sacks? Answer: They will fulfill the people's requests.
Context: "Well now," said the peasant, "since it will be doing you such a favour, I don't mind exchanging my cow for your horse." And Hans went along driving his cow quietly before him, and thinking all the while of the fine bargain he had made. Question: What did Hans trade his horse for? Answer: a cow
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: What happened when the King tried to get the jug? Answer: The wretched thing always eluded his efforts and refused to let itself be caught.
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Why was the thought of the people troubled? Answer: They knew not which way to follow and which to forsake.
Context: 'I will lie here and rest under this tree,' he said to his attendants. ' Away they went, and the young man fell asleep, and slept long. Question: Why did the king's son rest in the forest? Answer: He was tired and bade them leave him to rest.
Context: And she fetched leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the fawn, and every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for herself, and fresh grass for the fawn, who ate out of her hand with joy, frolicking round her. At night, when the sister was tired, and had said her prayers, she laid her head on the fawn's back, which served her for a pillow, and softly fell asleep. Question: What did the sister use to make a soft bed for the fawn? Answer: leaves and moss
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: Who did Morraha tell the tale of the death of Anshgayliacht to? Answer: the Slender Red Champion
Context: So Farquhar took the little creature out carefully between his finger and thumb. "Dost know anything of my friends, or where my father's cottage is gone to?" Question: What happened to Farquhar after he realized he was older than the ancient man's father? Answer: He got such a shock at the thought that his bones suddenly dissolved into dust, and he fell, a heap of grey ashes, on the floor.
Context: In the meantime their little sister at home was growing up quickly. Then she took the girl and opened the locked-up room; she showed her the twelve coffins filled with shavings, and with the little pillow laid in each. Question: What will the girl do when she finds out about her twelve brothers? Answer: go and seek her brothers
Context: The horned demons looking up and only seeing a pheasant, laughed and said:  "A wild pheasant, indeed! It is ridiculous to hear such words from a mean thing like you. Question: What did the demons think about the pheasant's words? Answer: silly
Context: Long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded, and he was astonished to behold a man; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather. He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: How did the old man feel when he saw the youth with a white feather on his forehead? Answer: surprised
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. You will soon see us lie down, and we shall not rise again till the spring. I have sure knowledge that that knavish Island Spirit is on the prowl, and as he has command of a particular kind of storm, which comes from the south-west, he only waits his opportunity to catch you abroad and do you a mischief. You are surprised," said the Old Spirit, "to see us disappear when it thunders. When you get to your home-village, you must first go in alone. Question: Why did the Old Spirit say to not be surprised whenever the wife disappeared at the sound of thunder? Answer: The old Island Spirit has a brother down in that part of the country.
Context: And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "It is best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some place where we can spend the night." A man and a woman were in it, and when they saw him they said, "Bring your companions here along with you, and they will be welcome." Then Bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was. Question: What did Bricriu say he was missing? Answer: fifty young girls
Context: Surprising the monster in its den, he made short work of cutting off its great head, which he carried back in triumph to his master. He now kept his promise and built a comfortable home for his old mother, who lived happily with him in the Capital to the end of her days. Question: What did Kintaro rise to be? Answer: the greatest hero of his country
Context: Her husband, distressed to see her so unhappy, and thinking that he could not have heard aright, said:  "Tell me what you mean! For some time past she has shut herself up in her room morning and evening, and looking in as I pass by, I am convinced that she has made an image of me and is trying to kill me by magic art, cursing me daily. Question: What did the step-mother say the daughter was doing? Answer: made an image of her and was trying to kill her by magic art, curing her daily
Context: Then the sun shone so brightly, and right before her stood an angel of God in white robes; it was the same one whom she had seen that night at the church-door. She sat in the pew with the rest of the pastor's household, and when they had finished the hymn and looked up, they nodded and said, "It was right of you to come, Karen." Question: What did the angel carry instead of a sword? Answer: a beautiful green branch
Context: On one side, sitting among the cinders, with his face blackened, and crying aloud, was his elder brother. He seemed to be so lost and far-gone in grief that he could not notice his brother's arrival. Question: What did Maidwa say he brought for his brothers? Answer: each of them a wife
Context: And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should be well cared for. I took hold of it in my paw, and drank it, and thanked the King. No matter what guard was placed over them, the child would be gone in the morning. A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I began to howl, and the King heard me, and he cried out that something was wrong with me, and he sent servants to see what was the matter with me, and when the messenger came he saw me covered with blood, and he could not see the child. When I was loosed, I found the scent of the blood till I came to a door of the room in which the child was. Question: Who was in the chimney? Answer: the kidnapper
Context: Then Li Dsing, on the occasion of a great military drill, once came by the cliff in question, and saw the people crowding thickly about the hill like a swarm of ants. Li Dsing said: "While you were alive you brought misfortune to your parents. When he returned he found his temple destroyed; and the spirit of the hill gave him the details. At the height of his extremity, however, the holy Wen Dschu of the Hill of the Five Dragons, the master of Gintscha, Li Dsing's oldest son, stepped forth and hid Li Dsing in his cave. Question: Why was Notscha determined to punish Li Dsing? Answer: Li Dsing destroyed Notscha's temple.
Context: The next morning a boy knocked at the door, bidding him attend the burial of the man who was dead. Question: Why did the boy knock on the third husband's door? Answer: bided him attend the burial of the man who was dead
Context: Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto took no notice of what the hare said, but bidding the little animal goodby, went on his way quickly and soon overtook his brothers. But when she looked at the kind brother's face she went straight up to him and said:  "To you I give myself," and so they were married. Question: What happened when the men reached the Princess's gate? Answer: The Princess could not be persuaded to become the bride of any of the brothers.
Context: Then the Prince suddenly recovered his memory, and cried:  "What can have made me forget such an important thing? "I thank you, beautiful Cat," said the Prince; "but what good will it do me to get back if I have not a dog to take to my father?" Question: What did the prince do after he drank from the crystal goblet? Answer: forgot everything and only thought how happy he was to be with the White Cat
Context: They went out into the woods, and at the close of the afternoon they brought back a great spoil of meat of all kinds. As the young man appeared to doubt, she added, "Feign yourself sick when you go home to her lodge; and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails you, say that you wish to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful brother the dog, in striving to save you, tore off these pieces which I show you." Question: What did the young man tell the old Toad-Woman to do? Answer: send some of the best of this meat to the stranger who has arrived lately
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: What did the woman change the man into? Answer: a fox
Context: When they reached home, and the maiden had gone to bed, all went as usual: a man came in and cast himself down in a corner of the room. But in the night, when she heard him sleeping soundly, she stood up and lighted the candle. Question: What happened because she let three hot drops of tallow fall on the bear? Answer: He awoke.
Context: The hue of her hair was like the flower of the iris in summer or like red gold after the burnishing thereof. And after a space Murtough perceived her sitting there, and the sun shining upon her, so that the glittering of the gold and of her golden hair and the bright shining of the green silk of her garments, was like the yellow iris-beds upon the lake on a sunny summer's day. Question: What happened after Sheen was decked? Answer: Sheen went softly and sat down beside Murtough on the turfy hunting mound.
Context: It was the spring, and just the time of year when the dwarfs held their fete, so one day the brownie asked Jegu if he might bring his friends to have supper in the great barn, and whether he would allow them to dance there. Of course, Jegu was only too pleased to be able to do anything for the brownie, and he ordered Barbaik to spread her best table-cloths in the barn, and to make a quantity of little loaves and pancakes, and, besides, to keep all the milk given by the cows that morning. Question: What did Jegu ask Barbaik to do? Answer: to spread her best table-cloths in the barn and to make a quantity of little loaves and pancakes and to keep all the milk given by the cows
Context: He had never heard such music since the hour that he was born. So he blessed the little white singing-bird, and gladly went his way. Question: What was the last time the Abbot heard such music? Answer: the hour he was born
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. Put your hand into the place where the horn was and you will find food." He laid it on the ground, put in his hand, and drew out food and drink and a table-cloth. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. When he went out with his cattle the next day his stepmother sent her own daughter out after him, and told her to be watching him till she should see where he was getting the food. Question: What will the son do whenever he is hungry on the mountain? Answer: twist the bracket bull's horn
Context: 'Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: How did the Magician feel when he saw the palace? Answer: astonished
Context: The simple-minded crab could not resist the monkey's clever persuasion. As soon as the crab reached home he put the persimmon-seed in the ground as the monkey had told him. Question: Why could the crab not resist the monkey's persuasion? Answer: He was simple-minded.
Context: the Princess Bella-Flor-' answered the man, and then stopped as if afraid. 'I have heard-it is whispered at court-that your majesty desires to know where she lies in hiding.' 'Order Jose to appear before me instantly,' he shouted to the servant who ran to obey his orders, so great was the noise his majesty had made; and when Jose entered the hall, wondering what in the world could be the matter, the king was nearly dumb from rage and excitement. Question: How did Jose feel after being sent after Princess Bella-Flor? Answer: surprise and horror
Context: As to the other of the two scholars, Yuan Dschau, he was not so
fortunate. When he came home he found that his wife and child had long
since died, and his grand-children and great-grand-children were
mostly useless people. Question: Why was Yuan Dschau not so fortunate? Answer: When he came home he found that his wife and child had long since died, and his grand-children and great-grand-children were mostly useless people.
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: Why did the king of the buffalos want to carry off with Aggo's daughter? Answer: He wanted to marry her.
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: What happened after Redhead's fingers hardly touched the flail? Answer: He let a roar out of him as if heaven and earth were coming together, and kept flinging his arms about and dancing that it was pitiful to look at him.
Context: After this the foster-mother wished to take another journey, and she told the girl, who was now more than half-grown, that she must take her request not to go, or even so much as peep into the third room, seriously to heart. It is true, that at first she thought she would not do it, because of her foster-mother; yet when the thought returned to her, she could not hold back, after all; but decided that she should and must by all means take a peep. Question: How did the girl feel at the thought of opening the third door? Answer: excited
Context: When he came to the devil's place, there stood a man out by the wood-pile making wood. The peasant went to him and asked whether he could tell him if they wanted to buy a pig in the devil's place. " Question: What was the man standing outside the devil's place doing? Answer: making wood
Context: In the midst of the wedding festivities, when the king and his whole court were seated at table, the door opened, and in came Silverwhite with his dogs. To prove it beyond any chance of doubt, each of the king's daughters showed her father the ring she had wound in Silverwhite's locks. Question: Why was the king surprised at his daughter's excitement? Answer: He did not know that it was Silverwhite who saved his daughters.
Context: "Samuel Whiskers has run up a bill as long as his tail; he has had an ounce and three-quarters of snuff since October." "What is seven pounds of butter at 1/3, and a stick of sealing wax and four matches?" Question: What did Ginger and Pickle do to make everyone pay for their items? Answer: sent in all the bills again to everybody
Context: 'Don't get lost, and come back safely in the evening,' said the big sister. Next time I meet him I shall do him the honour of eating him up.' Question: What did Lisa and Aina take to hold the raspberries? Answer: the yellow basket and the green one
Context: So soon as the crocodiles understood that this was a trick played upon them by the hare so as to enable him to cross the sea, and that the hare was now laughing at them for their stupidity, they became furiously angry and made up their minds to take revenge. When the crocodiles had pulled out the last bit of fur, they threw the poor hare on the beach, and all swam away laughing at what they had done. Question: How did the hare feel when the crocodiles caught him? Answer: scared
Context: During the whole day the Snow Man stood looking in through the window, and in the twilight hour the room became still more inviting, for from the stove came a gentle glow, not like the sun or the moon. When the door of the stove was opened, the flames darted out of its mouth. Question: What happened when the door of the stove was opened? Answer: The flames darted out of its mouth.
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: What happened because no child was born to the couple? Answer: This made them very unhappy.
Context: Her godmother only just touched her with her wand, and, at the same instant, her clothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver, all beset with jewels. This done, she gave her a pair of glass slippers, the prettiest in the whole world. Question: Why did the godmother command Cinderella not to stay till after midnight? Answer: The coach would be a pumpkin again. Her horses, coachman, footmen, and clothes would become just as they were before.
Context: These words had been scarcely breathed, when the young woman rose up, opened her eyes, and looked upon Bokwewa with a smile, as if she had known him before. To Kwasynd she paid no heed whatever; but presently Bokwewa, seeing how she lingered in her gaze upon himself, said to her, "Sister, that is your husband," pointing to Kwasynd. Question: Why did the young woman pay no attention to Kwasynd? Answer: Kwasynd did not save her.
Context: "I have heard tell, however, that one is safe from any power that the Knight may have if one wearest the Sign of the Blessed Trinity. So he went out to the meadow and plucked a leaf of clover, which he bound on his arm with a silken scarf; then he mounted his horse and rode with Earl Gregory to the desolate and lonely moorland. Question: What did Earl St. Clair see the horseman doing? Answer: fly through the air
Context: When the hare had finished his story, the man was full of pity towards him, and said:  "I am very sorry for all you have suffered, but remember, it was only the consequence of the deceit you practiced on the crocodiles." I beg you to show me how I may cure my sore body and make the fur grow again." Question: Why did the man decide to tell the hare the remedy for his fur? Answer: the hare had repented
Context: I wonder how it came here"; and he picked the rocket out of the ditch. So they piled the faggots together, and put the Rocket on top, and lit the fire. Question: What did the two little boys think the Rocket was? Answer: an old stick
Context: The following Thursday the white bear came to fetch his bride. So she rode on the bear's back, far, far away, until at last they came to a great rock. Question: How could the maiden get anything she wanted? Answer: She need only ring the bell and she should have it all at once.
Context: The brother kept on until he was nearly starved and ready to sink to the earth. The savor was most delicious to the nostrils of the hungry brother, who had not the least suspicion of the sport that was going on at his expense. Question: Where did the brother stop? Answer: a beautiful garden
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: Why did the family make their meal of the dried meats? Answer: The Weendigo took up the deer which the hunter had brought in and devoured it eagerly.
Context: After they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. One day they agreed to kill each a male of that kind of animal, which each was most expert in hunting, for the purpose of making quivers from their skins. Question: Why did the brothers say they could not part with the eldest? Answer: They loved him.
Context: Well, the poor man was miserable enough, for he was as fond of his woman as she was of him. It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeks to see his poor children neglected and dirty, as they often were, and they'd be bad enough only for a kind neighbour that used to look in whenever she could spare time. Question: Who took care of the kids? Answer: a kind neighbor and a nurse
Context: Thus Kintaro's fate was settled, and the general decided to start for the Capital at once, taking Kintaro with him. When they learned that he was going away for good they followed him to the foot of the mountain to see him off. Question: What happened because Kintaro's mother did not want to discourage him? Answer: She hid her grief with a strong face.
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: What happened when Prince Yamato was sixteen? Answer: The realm was much troubled by a band of outlaws whose chiefs were two brothers.
Context: After a time Mr. John Dormouse and his daughter began to sell peppermints and candles. And when Mr. John Dormouse was complained to, he stayed in bed, and would say nothing but "very snug;" which is not the way to carry on a retail business. Question: What did Mr. Dormouse do when he was complained to? Answer: stayed in bed
Context: At first he was only a servant, who carried the king the water for his bath, and saw that his bed was made in a particular fashion. But he did his duties so well that his master soon took notice of him, and in a short time he rose to be a gentleman of the bedchamber. Question: What happened because Jose did his duties so well? Answer: His master soon took notice of him.
Context: He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit of armour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and the other people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. When the King's daughter came home she said that she would never marry a man but the man whom that shoe would fit. Question: Who did the king's daughter send out with the shoe? Answer: soldiers
Context: They marched along as fast as they could, but still it was farther away than it seemed. They went in and sat down, and the old man laid an armful of wood and a couple of big logs on the fire, until every corner was as bright as day, and wherever they looked everything was indescribably splendid. Question: Who was the owner of the powerful voice? Answer: the prince's father
Context: Hand it to me," he said, when he had approached near enough to receive it. In a short time they reached the magician's lodge, which stood upon the further shore, a little distance back from the lake. Question: Who were seated within the magician's lodge? Answer: the magician's two daughters
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: Who was the wicked magician? Answer: a mighty ruler in the underworld
Context: Once upon a time there was a youth called Moti, who was very big and strong, but the clumsiest creature you can imagine. Now a serai, you must know, is generally just a large square enclosed by a high wall with an open colonnade along the inside all round to accommodate both men and beasts, and with perhaps a few rooms in towers at the corners for those who are too rich or too proud to care about sleeping by their own camels and horses. Question: Who was very big and strong, but the clumsiest creature you could imagine? Answer: Moti
Context: The ould gander, who was their general, turning about his head, cried out to me, 'Is that you, Dan?' ' So I told him how I had taken the drop, and how I came on the island, and how I lost my way in the bog, and how the thief of an eagle flew me up to the moon, and how the man in the moon turned me out. ' Sweet is your hand in a pitcher of honey, my jewel,' says I, though all the time I thought within myself that I don't much trust you; but there was no help, so I caught the gander by the leg, and away I and the other geese flew after him as fast as hops. Mr. Goose, why, then, to be sure, I'm a man to be pitied among you.' Question: What will happen if Daniel accepts someone else's help? Answer: Daniel will be told to be quiet.
Context: The crane grew large enough for him to ride on it with comfort. The bird never stopped for rest or food, but as it was a paper bird it doubtless did not require any nourishment, and strange to say, neither did Sentaro. Question: What did the crane do after it grew large? Answer: spread its wings, rose high in the air, and flew away
Context: Tsin Schi Huang was much alarmed, and had the grave closed again. But when he reached Schakiu he fell ill of a hasty fever of which he died. Question: Where did Emperor Tsin Schi Huang die from a hasty fever? Answer: Schakiu
Context: But she thought a great deal about Ribby's pie, and she read Ribby's letter over and over again. said Duchess to herself--"I really couldn't, COULDN'T eat mouse pie. Question: What is the similarity between Duches' and Riby's pies? Answer: They were both bought at Tabitha Twitchit's.
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' But then she never leaves off talking, and though at first one may be amused, one ends by being wearied to death. Question: How will the Fairy feel knowing she cannot help Iris? Answer: pitiful
Context: "Now I am in a nice place," said he; "my gilding will soon be washed off here. And then he glanced at a curious round thing like an old apple, which lay near a long, leafless cabbage-stalk. Question: Where did the ball lay for several years? Answer: in the gutter
Context: It is hard to have anything to do with the good people without getting a mark from them. Musha, indeed, sir, your coat looks no better than a withered dock-leaf.' ' Question: Who did the wife see at the market of Enniscorthy? Answer: the Dark Man
Context: thought she, "can it be that my poor children that he devoured for his evening meal are still alive?" Then she cut the wolf's body open, and no sooner had she made one snip than out came the head of one of the kids, and then another snip, and then one after the other the six little kids all jumped out alive and well, for in his greediness the rogue had swallowed them down whole. Question: What did the mother goat do with a pair of shears, needle, and thread? Answer: She cut open the wolf's body open.
Context: After this the foster-mother wished to take another journey, and she told the girl, who was now more than half-grown, that she must take her request not to go, or even so much as peep into the third room, seriously to heart. It is true, that at first she thought she would not do it, because of her foster-mother; yet when the thought returned to her, she could not hold back, after all; but decided that she should and must by all means take a peep. Question: Why did the girl open the third door? Answer: The girl was all alone and bored.
Context: "Baker," said he, "I am hurt in the foot; pray spread some dough over the place." But the miller refused, thinking the wolf must be meaning harm to some one. Question: How did the wolf threaten the miller? Answer: He threatened to eat him up.
Context: The charcoal-burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment, as if they could hardly believe their ears. When they were ready, one of the king's special servants entered, and took them into a small hall, where dinner was laid. Question: How did the woman feel after the king told her to lock their door? Answer: confused
Context: She danced, and was obliged to go on dancing through the dark night. And he carved her a pair of wooden feet and some crutches, and taught her a psalm which is always sung by sinners; she kissed the hand that guided the axe, and went away over the heath. Question: What does Karen ask the executioner to do? Answer: "cut off my feet with the red shoes"
Context: The church was full of lights, as was always the case when the Christmas mass was said. As she sat down it seemed to her that some one said: "If I had not stood godfather to you when you were christened, I would do away with you as you sit there, and now hurry and make yourself scarce, or it will be the worse for you!" Question: Why did the woman not see that all the people were headless? Answer: She was in a hurry.
Context: The tail feathers of this fowl were very short, and it winked with both its eyes, and looked very cunning as it said, "Cluck, cluck." What were the thoughts of the fowl as it said this I cannot tell you, but as soon as our good man saw it, he thought, "Why, that's the finest fowl I ever saw in my life; it's finer than our parson's brood hen, upon my word. Question: Why did the peasant think that the fowil would be a great exchange? Answer: It's finer than their parson's brood hen. Fowls can always pick up a few gains that lie about and almost keep themselves.
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. The giants hastened out, and gave a cry of joy as they saw him drawing near. Without paying much heed to their fine speeches, White Feather went fearlessly into their lodge; and without waiting for invitation, he challenged them to a foot-match. Whoever won this stake, was empowered to use it in dispatching the defeated champion. He went on in this way for the five mornings, always conquering by the aid of his vine, and lopping off the heads of the vanquished giants. Question: What will happen to the giants when White Feather defeats them? Answer: They will be killed and beheaded.
Context: Now Dick was more versed in giving blows than in making music. His first impulse was to seize the Sword, then, come what might, he had something in his hand to defend himself with. He blew a blast upon it, which, however, was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall. Question: How did Canonbie Dick feel when he was choosing between the Horn and the Sword? Answer: nervous
Context: He kissed her for the last time, and was off the next minute, walking as fast as he could. Her life was almost leaving her, when, just as the sun was setting, he turned up a lane, and went into a little house. Question: What did the youngest princess do after her husband left for the witch's castle? Answer: shouted after him, and then seeing there was no use, she dressed herself and pursued him
Context: Then one night an icy, spectral wind arose, which whirled up sand and stones, broke trees and tore down houses. They questioned him and he told them: "First I saw a man in a purple gown riding a black horse, who came up with a great retinue. Question: What happened the dead general after he returned to life again? Answer: They questioned him.
Context: "No," said the youth, he always had something to think about. "No," said the youth, "I am used to serving myself, so I have no need of a servant. Question: Why was the youth glad to have the man as a comrade? Answer: The youth would have company.
Context: Then the two parted, but not before the old man had commissioned Dick to get him other good horses at the same price. And he might have been selling horses to him yet, for aught I know, had it not been for his one failing. Question: What did the stranger do before the two parted? Answer: commissioned Dick to get him other good horses at the same price
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: What did the poor man's master send him to do? Answer: cast peats on a piece of moorland that lay on a certain part of the farm
Context: Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank. When Kotei found his march checked he was wild with disappointment, for he had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him. Question: What happened because Kotei could not do anything? Answer: ordered his tent to be pitched in the pleasantest spot
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: How did the old man find out about his son's wife? Answer: heard from the landlady
Context: It was a bright spring day, and the sun shone very warm and pleasant over the pastures, where the new grass was growing so juicy and tender that all the sheep thought they had never tasted anything so delicious. The sheep had had a strange experience that morning, for the farmer had taken them down to the brook and washed them, and then he tied their legs together and laid them on the grass and clipped all the heavy, soft wool from their bodies with a great pair of shears. Question: What did the farmer do after washing the sheep and tying their legs together? Answer: laid them on the grass and clipped all the heavy, soft wool from their bodies
Context: He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit of armour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and the other people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. She sent out soldiers, then, and the shoe with them, to try would it fit anyone at all. He went to the caher of the giants, and he got a fine new suit on him, and he went with them then. Question: Why did the soldiers insist on putting the shoe on the lad's foot? Answer: Every person, poor and rich, no matter where he was from, must try the shoe on him.
Context: Ribby and Duchess said good-bye affectionately, and Duchess started home. When Ribby came out for a pailful of water to wash up the tea-things, she found a pink and white pie-dish lying smashed in the middle of the yard. Question: What was laying down in the middle of Ribby's yard? Answer: a pink and white pie dish lying smashed
Context: 'It is a marvel, truly,' said she, 'yet it would be unseemly for a man of thy dignity to hang a reptile such as this. 'Woe betide me,' he cried, 'if I would not hang them all if I could catch them, and such as I have I will hang.' Question: What did Kieva tell Manawyddan to do with the mouse? Answer: Do not meddle with it, but let it go.
Context: Then the two parted, but not before the old man had commissioned Dick to get him other good horses at the same price. And he might have been selling horses to him yet, for aught I know, had it not been for his one failing. Question: What was the stipulation that the stranger made? Answer: the only stipulation he made being that Dick should always bring them to the same spot, after dark, and that he should always come alone.
Context: Maidwa's pack for traveling was now ready, and he was taking his farewell smoke, when the young magician thus addressed him: "My friend Maidwa, you know for what cause you came thus far, and why you have risked so much and waited so long. He then spoke in a language which Maidwa did not understand, the curtain of the lodge parted, and the Red Swan met his gaze. She is worthy of you, and what you have done for me merits more. Question: Who was the magician's sister? Answer: the Red Swan
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: Why was the Fairy pleased with Sylvia? Answer: Sylvia learned a valuable lesson.
Context: It rested on the loftiest cliffs of the island, and there they fixed their residence. They all resumed their natural shapes, but they were diminished to the size of fairies; and as a mark of homage to the King of the Evening Star, they never failed on every pleasant evening during the summer season to join hands and dance upon the top of the rocks. Question: Who always led the dance? Answer: Osseo and his wife
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: Where was the wolf walking? Answer: in the palace yard
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: What happened after the appointed time was past? Answer: The Magician sent his servants to fetch the Prince.
Context: In the middle of the plain he perceived a post, and something waving at its top. As he passed some of those who were standing by, he came close to their ears, and as they heard the rapid whirr or murmur which this bird makes when it flies, they jumped aside, and asked each other what it could be. Question: Why were the Indians screaming? Answer: the scalp was moving away
Context: Then she showed him the twelve shirts which she had taken with her, and Benjamin saw that it must be his sister, and said:  'I am Benjamin, your youngest brother.' After a time Benjamin said:  'Dear sister, there is still a little difficulty, for we had all agreed that any girl we met should die at our hands, because it was for the sake of a girl that we had to leave our kingdom.' Question: How did Benjamin and his sister feel after finding each other? Answer: joyful
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. Who outstripped the Fenians of Eire, and why is this proverb used, 'As Roc came to the house of Fionn'?" When it had been cooked it was fetched to me for the purpose of dividing it. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: Why did the giant want the haunch bone? Answer: He heard Fionn was generous.
Context: Then the paper boat fell to pieces, and the soldier sank into the water and immediately afterwards was swallowed up by a great fish. After a while, a flash of lightning seemed to pass through him, and then the daylight approached, and a voice cried out, "I declare here is the tin soldier." Question: How did the soldier return home? Answer: the fish that swallowed him was caught and sold
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: What animal was Murmur Goose-Egg stronger than? Answer: a number of horses
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: What happened when Hyacinthia stamped on the ground? Answer: The earth opened and they both sank down into the lower world.
Context: So the girl related all her history, and what had happened to her, and when the mother heard how she came to have such great riches she began to wish that her ugly and idle daughter might have the same good fortune. Soon she came to the apple-tree, who called out,  "Oh, shake me, shake me, we apples are all of us ripe!" Question: Where did the ugly daughter find herself when she jumped down the well? Answer: in the beautiful meadow
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: What will the old man tell the young man? Answer: the old man's prowess and exploits, and what he could perform
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: What was the young visitor's name? Answer: Seegwun, the Spirit of Spring
Context: But the seal catcher only laughed at them, and said that those seals were most worth killing. The seal catcher, much annoyed at his clumsiness, and also at the loss of his knife, went home to dinner in a very downcast frame of mind. Question: What happened after the man hurt the seal? Answer: The creature slipped off the rock into the sea, and disappeared under the water, carrying the knife along with it.
Context: There were many other playthings on the table on which they were being set out, but the nicest of all was a pretty little castle made of cardboard, with windows through which you could see into the rooms. The little lady was stretching out both her arms, for she was a Dancer, and was lifting up one leg so high in the air that the Tin-soldier couldn't find it anywhere, and thought that she, too, had only one leg. Question: Why did the Tin-soldier believe that the Dancer only had one leg? Answer: The Dancer was lifting up one leg so high in the air that the Tin-soldier couldn't find the other leg anywhere.
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: What did Per Gynt do in the mountains? Answer: shot bear and elk
Context: So the wife was very anxious while she helped her husband get ready for the long journey, knowing what an arduous task lay before him. The little girl was the only one to smile, for she was ignorant of the sorrow of parting. Question: What did the wife do as the husband said goodbye? Answer: cried
Context: The following Thursday the white bear came to fetch his bride. So she rode on the bear's back, far, far away, until at last they came to a great rock. Question: What did the castle have? Answer: brilliantly lighted rooms
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: What did the Abbot see on the body's feet? Answer: a holly-bush
Context: When they reached home the gates and doors had long since vanished,
and the people of the village were all strangers to them. At last he
fell at Liu Tschen's feet with great joy and cried: "Yes, you are
really my master! Question: What did the people of the village do when they saw the two scholars? Answer: crowded about the scholars and asked who they might be.
Context: Happily Jonas heard his cry of distress, for Walter was quite near the mill now, and he ran and helped him up. When Walter beat his drum, Caro crept out, and when Walter ran away, Caro ran after him, as he so often does when Walter wants to romp and play. Question: Who was the friendly wolf? Answer: Caro
Context: Who were the two scholars? Question: Liu Tschen Answer: the-two-scholars
Context: But, to his astonishment, he found that some change must have passed over him. He was still more aghast when he caught sight of himself in a large mirror that hung on the wall, and saw that he also no longer bore the likeness of a man, but was transformed into a nice, hairy, brown seal. Question: Where did the seal catcher and the stranger enter? Answer: a huge hall
Context: In the midst of the wedding festivities, when the king and his whole court were seated at table, the door opened, and in came Silverwhite with his dogs. To prove it beyond any chance of doubt, each of the king's daughters showed her father the ring she had wound in Silverwhite's locks. Question: Who came in in the midst of the wedding activities? Answer: Silverwhite and his dogs
Context: When they sat down to the table the king's son--the same who had been at the giant's--said it would be no more than right to invite the maiden, too, who had lent them the poker, and the door and the calf: "for if we had not had these things, we should not have moved from the spot." They were to carry the king's kindest greetings, and ask that the maiden come up to the castle and take dinner with them. " Question: Why did the king give the Master Girl a place at the head of the table? Answer: She was more than she appeared to be.
Context: But, to his astonishment, he found that some change must have passed over him. He was still more aghast when he caught sight of himself in a large mirror that hung on the wall, and saw that he also no longer bore the likeness of a man, but was transformed into a nice, hairy, brown seal. Question: What did he see when he caught sight of himself in the large mirror? Answer: saw that he also no longer bore the likeness of a man, but was transformed into a nice, hairy, brown seal
Context: She was still more angry when they made no answer to her complaint; but when she found that they were stark dead, and placed in this way to mock her, her fury was very great indeed. The old Toad-Woman was very anxious to get forward, but the snakeberry-vines kept spreading out on every side; and they still grow and grow, and spread and spread; and to this day the wicked old Toad-Woman is busy picking the berries, and she will never be able to get beyond to the other side, to disturb the happiness of the young hunter and his mother, who still live, with their faithful dog, in the shadow of the beautiful wood-side where they were born. Question: What did the dog whisper to his master? Answer: "Snakeberry!"
Context: There were once five-and-twenty tin soldiers, who were all brothers, for they had been made out of the same old tin spoon. They shouldered arms and looked straight before them, and wore a splendid uniform, red and blue. Question: What was the first thing the tin soldiers heard? Answer: "tin soldiers!"
Context: As soon as they had sat down on the white mats, the father opened a bamboo basket that he had brought in with him, and took out a beautiful doll and a lacquer box full of cakes. She then put out her hand just like a little maple leaf with its eager wide-spread fingers to take the doll and the box, both of which, coming from the capital, were prettier than anything she had ever seen. Question: How did the daughter feel when she received the doll? Answer: delighted
Context: At the end of the seventh year he said,  "Master, my time is up. As the service is, so must the wages be," and he gave him a lump of gold as big as his head. Question: How long had Hans served his master for? Answer: seven years
Context: They were astonished to find that Tara was still standing, for though the night was dark, the palaces and temples, all of hewn timber, were brilliantly coloured and of many hues, for in those days men delighted in splendid colours. Conn and his only son and Gaul mac Morna followed the young hero into the Teck-Midcuarta, where the spear-long waxen candles were still burning, and when they saw the head of Midna impaled there at the end of the hall, the head of the man whom they believed to be immortal and not to be wounded or conquered, they were filled with great joy, and praised their deliverer and paid him many compliments. Question: How did the soldiers feel seeing that Tara was still standing? Answer: astonished
Context: "That's all very well, but we are not through yet," said the boy, "there is worse to come," and he told them to reef every last rag, as well as what had been left of the topsails. The last squall hit them with far more force than either of the preceding ones, the ship laid over on her side so that they thought she would not right herself again, and the breaker swept over the deck. Question: How did the crew feel when the second squall hit? Answer: frightened
Context: When he stood before the door at home, he turned around; and there lay many, many hundred yards of the finest linen, finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun. And when she saw the linen, stretching as far as she could see, and then a bit, she could not believe her eyes, until the youth told her how it all happened. Question: How did the mother feel when she saw the linen? Answer: disbelief
Context: Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. Question: Why did the monkey forget his sore back? Answer: was now the victor
Context: "Thy inheritance," answered the King, "be it great or small, and whether it lies in Ireland or beyond Ireland; and for securities I give you my son Art and Gaul mac Morna and the Chief of the Fians." Gaul and the captains of the Fianna consented to that arrangement, though reluctantly, for their minds misgave them as to who the great youth might be. Question: Why was the king willing to give anything to Finn as a reward? Answer: Allen was impossible to defeat.
Context: The wise man replied: "On the Western Ocean sail foreign merchants who deal in dragon-brain vapor. I also know a holy man who is an adept in the art of taming dragons, and who has prepared ten pounds of the dragon-stone. Question: What did the messengers receive from the holy man? Answer: two fragments of dragon-stone from him
Context: One day, as usual, Kintaro went up into the mountains, followed by the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare. After walking for some time up hill and down dale and over rough roads, they suddenly came out upon a wide and grassy plain covered with pretty wild flowers. Question: Why was the plain a nice place to have a good romp together? Answer: It was wide.
Context: But when they wanted to drive on, the bottom of the coach broke. So they sent to the little house in the forest, and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the golden house-door, of which the clerk had told them. And going home they went still faster, and were nearly out of their wits by the time they reached the castle. Question: Who else had been invited to the wedding besides the bailiff? Answer: the clerk
Context: This was a very rude speech, especially against the cask, but the huckster and the student both laughed, for it was only said in fun. As soon as it was night, the shop closed, and every one in bed except the student, the goblin stepped softly into the bedroom where the huckster's wife slept, and took away her tongue, which of course she did not then want. Question: What happened to objects when the tongue is placed upon them? Answer: they begin to talk
Context: The father coming in the evening to visit the lodge of his daughters, discovered what had happened. Above all, avoid tasting food till you succeed; for if you break your fast before you see his blood, your power will be destroyed." The son took this fatherly advice all in good part, except that portion which enjoined upon him to abstain from staying his stomach; but over that he made a number of wry faces, for the brother of the two wicked sisters had, among numerous noble gifts, a very noble appetite. Nevertheless, he took up his weapons and departed in pursuit of Onwee Bahmondang, at the top of his speed. Question: Why did the brother not allow himself to enjoy a meal? Answer: He thought of the blood of his sisters.
Context: There are many seamen in Fukien, and every year people are lost at
sea. And because of this, most likely, the Queen of Heaven took pity
on the distress of her people during her lifetime on earth. Question: Why did the Queen of Heaven took pity on the distress of her people during her lifetime on earth? Answer: Every year people are lost at sea.
Context: The king began to revive at these hopeful words, and took Moti off to his stable where he bade him choose for himself any horse he liked. There were plenty of fine horses in the stalls, but to the king's astonishment Moti chose a poor little rat of a pony that was used to carry grass and water for the rest of the stable. Question: What weapon did Moti carry with him? Answer: his staff
Context: They went out into the woods, and at the close of the afternoon they brought back a great spoil of meat of all kinds. The young man, as soon as he had laid aside his weapons, said to the old Toad-Woman, "Send some of the best of this meat to the stranger who has arrived lately." As the young man appeared to doubt, she added, "Feign yourself sick when you go home to her lodge; and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails you, say that you wish to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful brother the dog, in striving to save you, tore off these pieces which I show you." Question: Why did the young man say the cradle the Toad-Woman brought him was not his cradle? Answer: His cradle was of wampum.
Context: The crocodile, who was very simple-minded, and who hadn't the least idea that the hare intended to play a trick on him, agreed to do what the hare asked. He said:  "Wait a little while I go back into the sea and call my company together!" Question: What happened because the crocodile was so simple minded? Answer: He agreed to do what the hare asked.
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: What did the old woman get by book or by crook? Answer: a goat-skin
Context: The old man ran in to call his wife, and together they carried home the treasure. He loved and petted him more than ever, if that were possible. Question: How did the cross old neighbor feel when he saw the old man's treasure? Answer: envious
Context: "Just feel how heavy it is," said he, taking it up by the wings. " For heaven's sake," said he, "help me out of this scrape, I am a stranger in these parts. Question: What does Hans ask for in exchange for his pig? Answer: a goose
Context: Prince Toyonari, after some weeks, came home, and was told by his wife that his daughter Hime had done something wrong and had run away for fear of being punished. One day, trying to forget his terrible worry, he called all his men together and told them to make ready for a several days' hunt in the mountains. Question: What happened because Prince Toyonari thought his daughter had run away? Answer: He was nearly ill with anxiety.
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: What did Aggo consider to be his chief care? Answer: secure his daughter from being carried off by the king of the buffalos
Context: He at first thought of going to attack the monkey at once, for he burned with rage. Second thoughts, however, told him that this was useless, for the monkey was an old and cunning animal and would be hard to overcome. Question: Why did the young crab ask friends for help? Answer: He knew it would be quite out of his power to kill him alone.
Context: From the first he has hated me,' but outwardly she showed nothing. And when the king asked her what news there was in the town she only answered:  'You have ridden far; eat first, and drink, for you must be hungry and thirsty, and then I will tell you my news.' Question: Who was asleep in a corner, on to the girl's knee? Answer: her little boy
Context: And when the monk replied that he had seen nothing, the other continued: "Bonze, you should not lie! I have already slain a countless number of them, and have pretty well done away with them. Question: What did the stranger do to flying ogres? Answer: slain a countless number of them, and have pretty well done away with them
Context: called Esben, and blew into one end of his whistle, and then they scattered the more quickly to all the ends of the earth. But when he had reached an old charcoal-pit, he blew into the other end of his whistle, and before he knew it the hares were back again, and standing in rank and file so he could review them, just like a regiment of soldiers on the drill-ground. Question: Why did Esben lay down and fall asleep? Answer: He wasn't worried about watching the hares.
Context: Now when the girl had grown old enough to make distinctions, and had acquired some sense, it chanced that her foster-mother once wished to take a journey. " When her foster-mother came home, she was much grieved to find that the star had flown out, and was so annoyed with her foster-child that she threatened to send her away. Question: How did the girl feel when her foster-mother threatened to send her away? Answer: sad
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: What was remarkable about Kintaro? Answer: his great strength
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who had a queen that he loved with a great love. But after a time the queen died, and all he had left was an only daughter. Question: Why did the king's whole heart go out to the little princess? Answer: The king was a widower.
Context: Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough; but my right eye began to smart, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and then stared, for never in all my life was I so frightened. Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly. Question: What did Molly order the neighbor to not do? Answer: open her mouth to answer
Context: As often as he wearied of climbing, for even a squirrel can not climb forever, he repeated the little ceremony of the bones; but whenever he came near the lodge and put forth his hand to touch it, the tree would shoot up as before, and carry the lodge up far beyond his reach. At length the bones being all gone, and the lodge well-nigh out of sight, he began to despair, for the earth, too, had long since vanished entirely from his view. Question: Who were the two wicked sisters? Answer: Azhabee and Negahabee
Context: Then Manawyddan noosed the string about the mouse's neck, and was about to draw it tight. A bishop, with a great following and horses bearing huge packs, came by. Question: Who had a great following and horses bearing huge packs? Answer: a bishop
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: What did Far Rua assure Oonagh? Answer: He never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband.
Context: While traveling about her estates, Madame Margaret one evening came to the tavern in Fjelkinge. Those who knew about it preferred to travel a post-station further in the dark, rather than pass the night in the room in question. Question: Where did Madame Margaret come to one evening? Answer: the tavern in Fjelkinge
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. Question: How will the son feel when food comes out of the bull's horn? Answer: surprised
Context: Now in this lake there happened to harbor a wicked old Manito, Mishosha by name, who looked at the brothers as they played. When Owasso saw the old man, he professed to be greatly surprised. Question: How did Owasso feel when he saw the old man? Answer: surprised
Context: "On reaching the shore," added the little old woman, "you must consent to be his wife; and in the evening you are to induce him to take a walk out of the village, and when you have reached a lonesome spot, use the first opportunity to cut off his head with the blade of grass." Early in the morning he left the lodge of the little old woman who makes war, which was clouded in a heavy brackish fog, so thick and heavy to breathe, that he with difficulty made his way forth. Question: What did the witch tell Strong Desire to do once he reached a lonesome spot with Red Head? Answer: cut off Red Head's head with the blade of grass
Context: Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed. I am now obliged, whether I like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, and marry her daughter. Question: What did the youngest princess's husband give to her every night? Answer: a sweet drink out of a gold cup
Context: On the eve of the day fixed for her marriage, Leelinau decked herself in her best garments. Her face was radiant with joy, and the parents, taking what she had said as her own fanciful way of expressing acquiescence in their plans, wished her good fortune in the happy meeting. Question: Where was Leelinau going to meet her lover? Answer: Spirit Grove
Context: There was once upon a time a man and his wife who had an old cat and an old dog. I've quite made up my mind that the next time I see her, I shall put her in the water.' Question: Why is Simon upset with the old cat? Answer: because she never catches any mice therefore is useless
Context: When this had been kept up for the customary time, the enchanted dog was completely sweated away, and in his stead, as might have been expected, out came a very handsome young man, but, unhappily, without the power of speech. When the deputation reached the lodge, they were surprised to find, in the place of the dog, a fine young man; and on announcing their message, they all returned to the old chief, who was no less surprised at the change. Question: Why did the old man suspect there was magic in the house? Answer: His youngest daughter was supporting an idle dog and entertaining him as her husband.
Context: "When all was ready for the first representation, the whole company requested permission to speak to me before appearing in public. The lady who acted the part of the queen expected to be treated as a queen off the stage, as well as on it, or else she said she should get out of practice. Question: what did the whole company requst permission to do? Answer: speak to the director
Context: When they were through she gave Esben a whistle which had the power that if he blew into one end, whatever he wished scattered was scattered to all the winds, and when he blew into the other, all came together again. But if he lost so much as a single hare, and no matter how small it might be, then they would cut three red strips from his back, and the king was so sure of his case that he went right off to whet his knife. Question: How will Esben get the hares to return? Answer: the whistle
Context: 'Oh, nothing; I did not feel inclined to talk, that was all!' 'I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen,' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled. Question: Why was the husband concerned about his wife? Answer: She refused to eat.
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: What did the rebels do? Answer: broke the laws and defied all authority
Context: The next day, amid the embers, the clerics found his corpse, and they took it up and washed it in the Boyne, and carried it to Tuilen to bury it. As they went thus, bewailing the death of Murtough and bearing him to his grave, Duivsech, wife of Murtough, met them, and when she found her husband dead, she struck her hands together and she made a great and mournful lamentation; and because weakness came upon her she leaned her back against the ancient tree that is in Aenech Reil; and a burst of blood broke from her heart, and there she died, grieving for her husband. Question: What did Duivsech do when she found her husband dead? Answer: She struck her hands together and she made a great and mournful lamentation.
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: How will the old man feel when he sees the flower turn into Hyacinthia? Answer: shocked
Context: I had bitten the youngest boy in the leg, because he took away the bone I was gnawing; a bone for a bone, I thought! The Snow-man, however, was not listening to him any more; he was looking into the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on its four iron legs, and seemed to be just the same size as the Snow-man. Question: Why did the old yard-dog leave the girl and young man? Answer: The old yard-dog had bitten the youngest boy in the leg.
Context: This time the arrow again hit the centipede right in the middle of its head, but instead of glancing off harmlessly as before, it struck home to the creature's brain. A great darkness now overspread the heavens, the thunder rolled and the lightning flashed, and the wind roared in fury, and it seemed as if the world were coming to an end. Question: Why was the Dragon King and his children and retainers all frightened to death? Answer: The building was shaken to its foundation.
Context: He DID, but was ashamed to say so, and only answered: 'Well, I am sure it must be beautiful since you say so, and I shall be smarter than anyone in the whole village. " As soon as her husband entered she looked at him with such a look of terror that the poor man was quite frightened. Question: Why was the husband so frigtened? Answer: because his wife looked at him with a look of terror
Context: Then said one of the others,  "Have you looked behind the great cask?" Then the robbers said the old woman was right, and they left off searching, and sat down to eat, and the old woman dropped some sleeping stuff into their wine, so that before long they stretched themselves on the cellar floor, sleeping and snoring. Question: What did the old woman put in the wine that made the men stretch on the cellar floor, sleeping and snoring? Answer: sleeping stuff
Context: When the old man and his wife saw this, they understood that it was a reward to them from Shiro for their faithful love to him. They tasted the cakes and found them nicer than any other food. Question: Why were the couple never troubled about food? Answer: They lived upon the cakes with which the mortar never ceased to supply them.
Context: "Better," said she, "now that your clothes are dry, to think no more of the ducking than to go and all four of you get your heads broken, as you surely will. The little spirit or boy-man heard them roaring forth their threats as they approached, but he did not appear to be disquieted in the least. Question: Why did the sister suppose her brother had offended? Answer: She thought the brother came so angry as to make four of himself in order to wreak his vengeance.
Context: The King was very angry, and had the Queen and myself shut up in a great tower and safely guarded, and drove the little dwarfs out of his kingdom; but the fairies sent a great dragon who ate up all the people he met, and whose breath burnt up everything as he passed through the country; and at last, after trying in vain to rid himself of this monster, the King, to save his subjects, was obliged to consent that I should be given up to the fairies. My cradle was placed between the old fairies, who loaded me with caresses, and away we whirled through the air to a tower which they had built on purpose for me. Question: Why did the king send the queen and their daughter in a great tower and safely guarded, and drove the little dwarfs out of his kingdom? Answer: He wanted to protect his daughter.
Context: The dog soon came into the lodge, and she set before him the dish of grape-juice. "See, my child," she said, addressing him, "the pretty drink your mother gives you." The young man, as soon as he had laid aside his weapons, said to the old Toad-Woman, "Send some of the best of this meat to the stranger who has arrived lately." She ran immediately and brought a cedar cradle; but he said:  "That is not my cradle." When she had shown the four, and they had been all rejected, she at last produced the real cradle. To get free of the old Toad-Woman, it was necessary that the young man should kill a fat bear; and, being directed by Spirit-Iron, who was very wise in such a matter, he secured the fattest in all that country; and having stripped a tall pine of all its bark and branches, he perched the carcass in the top, with its head to the east and its tail due west. Question: How did the young man know the stranger was telling the truth? Answer: The Toad-Woman showed him his real cradle.
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Why was everyone afraid of Niall? Answer: They thought he was dead.
Context: The bracket bull used to be the first one of the cattle that used to come in every night, and the stepmother sent for two butchers, and she set them on each side of the gate to kill the bracket bull when he would come. The next night, when the lad came home with the cattle, he ate no more of his supper than any other night, and there was wonder on the stepmother. The next day, when the lad was herding the cows on the mountain, the bracket bull came and said to him, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough now. The bracket bull struck a horn on each side of him, and he killed the two butchers. Question: What will happen when the stepmother sends the butchers again? Answer: The butchers will kill a different cattle.
Context: The knight and his lady thanked Jack for their deliverance, and invited him to their house, to receive a proper reward for his services. " So, taking the knight's directions, he mounted his horse and soon after came in sight of another giant, who was sitting on a block of timber waiting for his brother's return. Question: Why did Jack refuse against the knight and his lady's offer of reward? Answer: because he cannot be easy till he find out the monster's habitation
Context: The farmer's wife tried to comfort her, and Miss Muffet, between her sobs, said she had seen "the awfulest, biggest, blackest spider in all the world!" And she ran out and jumped into the carriage, for she was very glad to get back again to those who would care for her and not ask her to work making cheeses. Question: Why did the woman laugh? Answer: She was not afraid of spiders.
Context: Well, he had fallen very ill when he was on the furthest border of the kingdom, and he was nursed by some kind people who did not know who he was, so that the king and queen heard nothing about him. When he was better he made his way home again, and into his father's palace, where he found a strange man standing behind the throne with the peacock's feathers. Question: Why did the king and queen hear from the prince? Answer: He had fallen very ill when he was on the furthest border of the kingdom, and he was nursed by some kind people who did not know who he was.
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: What was the wondrous change the Abbot found? Answer: new faces
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: What was between the land of the giants and the gentleman's land? Answer: a big stone
Context: The enchanter blew a second and a third, and Finn caught them both. Soon he perceived that he could not possibly overtake the swift enchanter. Question: Why did the enchanter flee? Answer: He might recover the protection of his enchanted palace before the "fair-faced youth clad in skins" should overtake him.
Context: Now he will have work enough to last him a lifetime," thought the king. The enemy shot at him as hard as they could, but their bullets did not touch him. Question: What did Aspenclog want to take with him? Answer: plenty of provisions
Context: My name is Sadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no-Raiko. Now if you really wish him to be a samurai, I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service. Question: How will Kintaro's mom respond to Sadamitsu's offer? Answer: She will accept.
Context: One day the two brothers began to look dark upon Maidwa, and to reproach him for having taken from the medicine-sack their deceased father's magic arrows; they upbraided him especially that one was lost. They asked him what he came for, how he had descended, and why he was so bold as to visit the abode of the dead. Question: Why was Maidwa surprised with the buffalos? Answer: The buffalos addressed him as human beings.
Context: The butchers were sent for, and they were ready to kill the bracket bull as soon as he came in. The next day, when the lad was herding the cows on the mountain, the bracket bull came and said to him, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough now. Question: Where did the bracket bull and the son spend the night? Answer: a wild wood
Context: As they went on and came to the lodge of the first old man, their reception and farewell were the same; and when Maidwa glanced to the corner, the silent kettle, which had been the first acquaintance he had made in that family on his travels, was not there. When, on continuing their journey, they at last approached the first town which Maidwa had passed in his pursuit, the watchman gave notice as before, and he was shown into the chief's lodge. The chief himself talked with Maidwa of his adventures, congratulated him on his good fortune, and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning. Question: How will the chief's daughter feel when she sees Maidwa and the Red Swan as a couple? Answer: jealous
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: What happened because the couple was so poor? Answer: They did not know how they were going to get her christened.
Context: Then Kintaro and the woodcutter both put out their right arms and grasped each other's hands. I saw you first on the banks of the river a few hours ago, when you pulled up that large tree to make a bridge across the torrent. Question: What did the woodcutter say would happen when Kintaro is full-grown? Answer: He will be the strongest man in Japan.
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Why did the King command his servants to pitch tents? Answer: The day was very hot and sultry.
Context: thought his brother, who saw his success; but just as little Peepi was getting to land with his prize, up sailed a large white owl from a tree where he, too, had been watching, and laid claim to it. He was on the point of wresting it from Peepi, when Gray Eagle, calling out to the intruder to desist, rushed up, and, fixing his talons in both sides of the owl, without further introduction or ceremony, flew away with him. Question: What happened just as Peepi was getting to land with his prize? Answer: A large white owl laid claim to it.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who lived in Telemarken, and had a big farm; yet he had nothing but bad luck with his cattle, and at last lost his house and holding. Then he knew very well that this must be one of the underground people; yet he had no fear, but invited his neighbor in to drink a glass with him, and the neighbor seemed to enjoy it. Question: Who lived in Telemarken? Answer: a peasant
Context: 'You have told me what I wanted to know,' cried the Fairy, 'but alas! Accordingly the butterflies whisked her off, and set her down in quite a strange kingdom. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' Question: How did Sylvia feel to return to the Fairy after visiting Princess Daphne? Answer: glad
Context: Pleased and excited the six elder sisters at once followed the boy, but the youngest, who was busy, and who did not care about strangers, stayed behind, to finish the work she was doing. And as soon as she reached the tree it bowed itself to the earth before her, and she stretched out her hand and picked some of its leaves and flowers and gave them to the king. Question: What happened after the six sisters came to the king? Answer: They could tell him nothing.
Context: So they wagered bushel against bushel as to which one of them could blow the highest note. " Well, if I don't, the horn will burst when I blow it," was Aspenclog's answer. Question: Who would blow first? Answer: Aspenclog
Context: But if he cooks gold here, I wonder what he cooks inside, there?" May God be your aid, for it is a fine service you have chosen!" Question: How did the maiden feel to see the king's son? Answer: surprised
Context: Once the schoolmaster of Etnedal was staying in the mountains to fish. One Sunday morning, as he was lying there reading, it seemed as though he could hear church bells; sometimes they sounded faintly, as though from a great distance; at other times the sound was clear, as though carried by the wind. Question: What was special about the sound of the church bells? Answer: Sometimes they sounded faintly; at other times the sound was clear
Context: As she was busy washing her clothes a great peach came bumping down the stream. The old woman looked up from her work and saw this large peach. Question: What will the woman do after she sees the peach? Answer: try and get it
Context: When he had made his way far into the Fjoll, he saw a girl driving sheep and goats across a mountain-top. But when he reached the top of the mountain, the girl had vanished, as well as her flock, and all he saw was a great pack of bears. Question: How did Per Gynt feel when he saw the girl disappear and a pack of bears? Answer: surprised
Context: At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, took heart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife? Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees. Question: Where did the king take the prince to? Answer: a beautiful garden
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: What happened when the old man cared for the plant? Answer: Everything in the old man's house was changed.
Context: I have made a pact with him and I have been unable to buy anything without selling it again in three weeks' time." Then Kitta Grau said: "Buy me, for I am sure no one will buy me from you!" Question: What did the merchant disguise Kitta Grau as? Answer: a bird
Context: As she was busy washing her clothes a great peach came bumping down the stream. She was sixty years of age, yet in all her life she had never seen such a big peach as this. " Question: Why did the woman think the peach would be delicious? Answer: It was unusually large.
Context: Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough; but my right eye began to smart, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and then stared, for never in all my life was I so frightened. Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly. Question: Why was Molly brought to the castle? Answer: to nurse the child of the king and queen of the fairies
Context: As she spoke she too stuck fast, and was not able to utter a word. When Kieva, the wife of Pryderi, found that neither her husband nor his mother returned to her, she was in such sorrow that she cared not whether she lived or died. Question: How did Kieva and Manawyddan feel after their partners disappeared? Answer: sad
Context: One day Shiro was heard barking for a long time in the field at the back of his master's house. Here he began to dig very industriously with his paws, yelping with joy all the time. Question: What did the old man hear? Answer: Shiro barking for a long time in the field.
Context: Presently it began to rain, and the drops fell faster and faster, till there was a heavy shower. Suddenly the boat shot under a bridge which formed a part of a drain, and then it was as dark as the tin soldier's box. Question: What did the tin soldier do to hide his fear? Answer: stood up straight
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: What did the old witch tell the man to do when he saw something move? Answer: throw this cloth quickly over it
Context: My name is Sadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no-Raiko. Now if you really wish him to be a samurai, I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service. Question: How could Sadamitsu help Kintaro's mother fulfill her wish? Answer: He could take Kintaro and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service.
Context: And from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for her young heart. It was a trying position; but her days spent in the recollection of her own beloved mother, and of trying to be what that mother would wish her to be, had made the young girl docile and patient, and she now determined to be filial and dutiful to her father's wife, in all respects. Question: Why was it a trying position for the daughter to be under the authority of a step-mother? Answer: She missed her mother.
Context: And this cup was filled with heather ale, which foamed up over the brim; and when the Knight saw Sir Gregory, he lifted it from the table, and handed it to him with a stately bow, and Sir Gregory, being very thirsty, drank. And as he drank he noticed that the ale in the goblet never grew less, but ever foamed up to the edge; and for the first time his heart misgave him, and he wished that he had never set out on this strange adventure. Question: What will happen after earl Gregory drinks the ale? Answer: He will fall down.
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I am come," she said, "because I am beloved of Murtough, son of Erc, King of Erin, and I come to seek him here." Question: How did Murtough feel when Sheen told him she was his beloved? Answer: glad
Context: The old people were very active and industrious; they were never idle for even a single hour. The old man would read aloud about Africa, with its great forests and the wild elephants, while his wife would listen attentively, stealing a glance now and then at the clay elephants which served as flowerpots. " Question: On what continent was the book set? Answer: Africa
Context: Silverwhite went though the city and inquired as to the cause of all the unhappiness he saw. This news pleased Silverwhite, for he saw a fine opportunity to wealth and fame, should fortune favor him. Question: How did Silverwhite feel when he heard of the news of the king and queen? Answer: pleased
Context: He sprang up, and discovered at a distance the figure of a human being, walking with a stick. Her path to the lake was perfectly smooth and solid, and the noise Strong Desire had heard was caused by the striking of her walking staff upon the ground. Question: What did Strong Desire discover at a distance? Answer: the figure of a human being
Context: When the man opened the door, everything within was so beautiful that Isaac could not get over his admiration. Their father must have quieted them, for they were very friendly and amiable, and told Isaac he must use his guest-right, and sit down and drink with them; for Isaac had risen to leave the table, saying he had satisfied his hunger. Question: What happened when Isaac sat down and drank with the three sons? Answer: They became good friends.
Context: This delighted the rest of the party, and they all began to arrange their fishing lines, made from the bark of the yellow mimosa, and to search for bait for their hooks. Most of them used worms, but one, who had put a piece of raw meat for dinner into his skin wallet, cut off a little bit and baited his line with it, unseen by his companions. Question: What did the men make their fishing lines out of? Answer: bark of the yellow mimosa
Context: But in summer time she was obliged to go barefooted because she was poor, and in winter she had to wear large wooden shoes, so that her little instep grew quite red. Just then a large old carriage came by, and in it sat an old lady; she looked at the little girl, and taking pity on her, said to the clergyman, "Look here, if you will give me the little girl, I will take care of her." Question: What did the old shoemaker's wife make for the little girl? Answer: little shoes
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: Who had wasted all the riches his wife had brought him in recklessness and folly, and was now very poor? Answer: the girl's brother
Context: It was about a year after that time there was another feast in Emain, and Conchubar and his chief men were sitting at the feast. Conchubar was in his own chariot, and there were following with him Fergus, son of Rogh, and Laegaire Buadach the Battle-Winner, and Celthair, son of Uithecar, and many others, and Bricriu of the bitter tongue was along with them. Question: Why did Conchubar and his men follow the birds? Answer: The birds were beautiful.
Context: The deer, the monkey and the hare set to work to help the bear raise the platform on which they were all to wrestle. Now, Mr. Monkey and Mr. Hare, if you are both ready, please walk out and take your places on the platform." Question: Who were the first ones to fight? Answer: the monkey and the hare
Context: After they had walked a while, they came to a little hut, lying deep in the dark forest. By then the king's daughter was very thirsty, and wanted to go into the little hut with her step-sister, in order to get a drink of water. Question: Why did the king's daughter want to go into the little hut with her step-sister? Answer: The king's daughter was very thirsty.
Context: Yet, in about a year's time nearly all his children had died. In the terror of his heart he turned to the Lord of the Great Mountain. Question: How did Hu-Wu-Bau feel when his children had died? Answer: scared
Context: There was once a woman who wanted to have quite a tiny, little child, but she did not know where to get one from. 'Oh, thank you!'said the woman, and gave the Witch a shilling, for that was what it cost. Question: Why did the woman go to the old Witch? Answer: She wanted to have quite a tiny, little child, but she did not know where to get one from.
Context: "But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift, do not repel him, or kill him?" Last year (though it was a shame to me that I, who am the high King over all Ireland, should not be able myself to defend Tara) I summoned Gaul mac Morna and all the Fians to my assistance. Question: How did the king feel being unable to defend Tara? Answer: shame
Context: He was lying in the road beating his wings, and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved. " I have not much food, nor are you likely to be able to help me much," said the king's son, "but still I can give you a little, for it is easy to see you need it." His meal had made the wolf so strong that he trotted off with the king's son as fast as he could. When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Yes, surely, I must believe it," said the princess, "when you tell me so." " Far, far away, in a lake there lies an island," said he, "and on the island stands a church, and in the church there is a well, and in the well floats a duck, and in the duck there is an egg, and in the egg it is my heart!" Question: Who will help the prince retrieve the giant's heart? Answer: the wolf
Context: "I think I ought to have had some consideration too," said the swallow. " Yes, that is your misfortune," said the fence-rail; "you are so fickle, so unsettled; you must always be travelling about into foreign lands when the cold commences here. Question: What did the swallow do a lot of this year? Answer: flying
Context: He thought he would ponder deeply how he could employ that to the best advantage. It happened that while he was doing so, one evening, as Owasso and his wife were sitting on the banks of the lake, and the soft breeze swept over it, they heard a song, as if sung by some one at a great distance. Question: Why did Owasso's wife propose they should attempt to make their escape? Answer: to make Owasso happy
Context: The next day, amid the embers, the clerics found his corpse, and they took it up and washed it in the Boyne, and carried it to Tuilen to bury it. As they went thus, bewailing the death of Murtough and bearing him to his grave, Duivsech, wife of Murtough, met them, and when she found her husband dead, she struck her hands together and she made a great and mournful lamentation; and because weakness came upon her she leaned her back against the ancient tree that is in Aenech Reil; and a burst of blood broke from her heart, and there she died, grieving for her husband. Question: What did the clerics find the next day? Answer: Murtough's corpse
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: Who did Aspenclog go to for work? Answer: the king
Context: The young man glanced up in surprise, and asked who was there. 'Look close, and you will see me among the reeds in the form of a little green frog. Question: Whose voice was coming out of the gorse? Answer: the brownie of the lake
Context: But before I tell it, thou must first sing for me all the songs thou hast sung for thy child! But do not stop me now--I may overtake him--I may find my child!" Question: What does Night ask the mother to do? Answer: sing
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: Why did the hag desire Fionn to put his head on his bosom? Answer: He saw that Fionn was seized with great fear and alarm.
Context: As the old woman spoke so kindly, the girl took courage, consented, and went to her work. When she had lived a long time with Mother Hulda, she began to feel sad, not knowing herself what ailed her; at last she began to think she must be home-sick; and although she was a thousand times better off than at home where she was, yet she had a great longing to go home. Question: Why did the girl want to go home? Answer: because she missed it
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: Why was the hunter afraid for his and his wife's lives? Answer: This monster was one whom Indians call Weendigoes.
Context: But just as she entered the church and took the hand of the bridegroom, who was waiting for her, a loud noise was heard. and the wedding garments fell to the ground, to the great confusion of the wearer. Question: Why was the bride so upset? Answer: Her dress fell apart.
Context: The tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company. His parents and friends raised their voices in loud lamentation; they clung to him, and as a special favor, which he could now grant, being himself a spirit, he allowed them to accompany him to the sand-banks. They gazed with eager eyes fastened on Wassamo, as he waded out into the water, waving his hands. Question: Why did Wassamo's parents and friends raised their voices in loud lamentation? Answer: Wassamo would no longer visit them.
Context: As they walked along the path they could not help pitying their young and handsome sister who had such an unsuitable mate. She, however, smiled upon Osseo, and kept with him by the way the same as if he had been the comeliest bridegroom in all the company. Question: What happened when Osseo and Oweenee came to a great rock? Answer: The star emitted a brighter ray.
Context: He was bent on success in pursuit of the swan, whose red track he marked well far westward till she was lost to sight. Meanwhile he would tarry for the night and procure something to eat, as he had fasted since he had left home. Question: Who gave notice of the approach of friends or foes? Answer: the watchman
Context: So when they had reached the gentleman's house, and the peasant had given him the pig, he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so. And at night, when the peasant was fast asleep, the old woman came and took away his rooster, and put another in its place. Question: Where did the peasant stay overnight? Answer: a tavern
Context: The next morning the giant got up very early, and went into the forest. And she picked the loveliest flowers she could find and strewed them over the threshold which they had put to rights again and when the time drew near for the giant's return, the king's son crept under the bed once more. Question: What did the giant do the next morning? Answer: got up very early and went into the forest
Context: "Dance you shall," said he, "dance in your red shoes till you are pale and cold, till your skin shrivels up and you are a skeleton! One morning she danced past a door that she knew well; they were singing a psalm inside, and a coffin was being carried out covered with flowers. Question: Why didn't Karen hear what the angel answered? Answer: the shoes kept dancing
Context: The hero of the piece would only play in a part containing points likely to bring down the applause of the house. I only wished I had them all in my box again, and that I had never been their director. Question: how did the director feel now that his puppets were actors? Answer: miserable
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: Why was the old man confused after the landlady asked about his daughter-in-law? Answer: He did not have a daughter-in-law.
Context: Then he studied till he became ill and wretched, the wretched man! She lived in the little house by the wayside, where the gate is that she opened for those who rode and drove. Question: What size was the house that the wise woman lives in? Answer: little
Context: Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat, making clothes for her children. However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, as they would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king's. Question: What did the wife want to turn the unfinished houses into? Answer: a palace as fine as the king's
Context: Undoubtedly he had given every giant in Ireland a considerable beating, barring Finn M'Coul himself. Finn, however, had a strong disinclination to meet a giant who could make a young earthquake or flatten a thunderbolt when he was angry. Question: Why did Finn have a strong disinclination to meet Far Rua? Answer: He did not want to be beaten by Far Rua.
Context: Jack my Hedgehog continued to herd his pigs, and they increased in number till there were so many that the forest seemed full of them. Jack my Hedgehog mounted his cock, and driving his pigs before him into the village, he let every one kill as many as they chose, and such a hacking and hewing of pork went on as you might have heard for miles off. Question: What happened when Jack my Hedgehog continued to herd his pigs? Answer: They increased in number till there were so many that the forest seemed full of them.
Context: The oldest daughter of the Ruler of Heaven had married the great general Li Dsing. But when Notscha was given her, she dreamed at night that a Taoist priest came into her chamber and said: "Swiftly receive the Heavenly Son!" Question: What were the names of the sons? Answer: Gintscha
Context: Ali Baba and his elder brother Cassim are the sons of a merchant. After the death of their father, the greedy Cassim marries a wealthy woman and becomes well-to-do, building on their father's business - but Ali Baba marries a poor woman and settles into the trade of a woodcutter. Question: Who does Cassim marry after the death of their father? Answer: a wealthy woman
Context: The paper came in two, and the soldier fell-but at that moment he was swallowed by a great fish. how dark it was inside, even darker than in the tunnel, and it was really very close quarters! Question: Where was the Tin-soldier after the boat sank? Answer: inside the fish
Context: In fact, he began to think that his master was right, and that the whole thing must have been a dream. That day, as the sun went down, the orra man left the farm to go home to his cottage. Question: Why did the master give him a present? Answer: His master was pleased with him because he had been working very hard lately.
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: Why did the gentleman not want the lad to go the place where the fiery dragon would be? Answer: It was dangerous.
Context: This relieved Finn very much, for, after all, he had great confidence in his wife, knowing, as he did, that she had got him out of many a quandary before. Having everything now prepared, she sent round to the neighbours and borrowed one-and-twenty iron griddles, which she took and kneaded into the hearts of one-and-twenty cakes of bread, and these she baked on the fire in the usual way, setting them aside in the cupboard according as they were done. Question: How did Oonagh find out the best way of succeeding in anything? Answer: drew the nine woollen threads of different colors
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: What happened to Princess Cynthia because she wanted to please everyone? Answer: She ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette.
Context: In a church-nave a specter sat night by night, and the specter's name was Torre Jeppe. One night three tailors were working at a farmstead in the neighborhood. Question: What did the specter do? Answer: sat night by night
Context: She had hardly spoken when the horse appeared, and mounting on his back she started for the village where the wedding was to be held. At first she was so delighted with the chance of a holiday from the work which she hated, that she noticed nothing, but very soon it struck her as odd that as she passed along the roads full of people they all laughed as they looked at her horse. Question: Why did the horse have no tail? Answer: because she didn't ask for one
Context: He said, with great dignity, "Thou hast heard, good man, of Thomas of Ercildoune--Thomas the Rhymer, as men call him. If he had been brought there to parley with Thomas the Rhymer, then had he laid himself open to all the eldrich Powers of Darkness. Question: Why did the stranger ask Canonbie Dick if he knew Thomas the Rhymer? Answer: The stranger wanted to reveal his identity.
Context: We come from the other land to test mankind, and to try the sincerity of the living. Often we have heard the bereaved by death say that if the lost could be restored, they would devote their lives to make them happy. Question: What happened after the guests gave the hunter and his wife to a future life? Answer: The guests pronounced a blessing upon them.
Context: they all cried together, and wanted to catch up with it and grab it on the run; but the pancake rolled and rolled, and sure enough, it got so far ahead of them that they could no longer see it, for it had nimbler legs than all of them. "Dear, good pancake, don't roll so fast; but wait a little and let me eat you!" Question: What will the hen ask the pancake to do? Answer: stop rolling so she can eat it
Context: There he opened a gate and they turned the corner, to the West. Once more the doors of the gate flew open, and now Aduan saw a lotus field about twenty acres in size. Question: Where did the boy lead Aduan? Answer: a lotus field
Context: So she did not dare to refuse any longer, and brought out as much money as he could possibly carry in his knapsack. Now no sooner had he gone than the devil came home, and when he learned that Murmur had taken along a big bag of money. Question: What happened because the devil followed Murmur so hotly? Answer: He ran into the club, fell down into the valley and broke it foot.
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. But he liked to sing and to dance, and that is what he did all day long, and far into the night as well. Question: Why did the son want to marry the daughter of the mother in the corner? Answer: He would live happily ever after, and could sing and dance, and would not have to plague himself with work.
Context: Once upon a time there was a youth called Moti, who was very big and strong, but the clumsiest creature you can imagine. Now a serai, you must know, is generally just a large square enclosed by a high wall with an open colonnade along the inside all round to accommodate both men and beasts, and with perhaps a few rooms in towers at the corners for those who are too rich or too proud to care about sleeping by their own camels and horses. Question: What did Moti's father give him? Answer: fifty silver pieces
Context: She looked until it came near, when she perceived that it was another Weendigo or Giant Cannibal. The son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken, and as the father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground. Question: How did the black cloud feel when he discovered there was no food? Answer: disappointed
Context: The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! The crane so addressed was of extraordinary size, and had arrived at a great old age, and, as might be expected, he sat, when first descried by the two sons, in a state of profound thought, revolving his long experience of life there in the midst of the most violent eddies. Question: Who did the sons and their father call for for help? Answer: a stately crane
Context: But Sheen went gladly and light-heartedly into the House of Cletty, and when she saw the lovely lightsome house and the goodly nobles of the clan of Niall, and the feasting and banqueting and the playing of the minstrels and all the joyous noise of that kingly dwelling, her heart was lifted within her, and "Fair as a fairy palace is this house of Cletty," said she. "Fair, indeed, it is," replied the King; "for neither the Kings of Leinster nor the Kings of mighty Ulster, nor the lords of the clans of Owen or of Niall, have such a house as this; nay, in Tara of the Kings itself, no house to equal this house of mine is found." Question: What did the king do that night? Answer: robed himself in all the splendour of his royal dignity
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: What did Murmur Goose-Egg do with the stones he gathered? Answer: put them in his pocket
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. The touch of his hands appeared to work like magic, for no sooner had he finished than the wound seemed to deaden and die, leaving only the scar. Question: What happened when the seal catcher came to heal the stranger's father? Answer: The old seal was better.
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Where did the man go when he turned into a fox? Answer: a badger's hole in the garden
Context: Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods with nobody near her but her little dog; for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning at her door. The cradle was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and ornaments were of the same precious stuff. Question: Why was the young woman surprised every morning? Answer: found fresh meat in the morning at her door
Context: said the astonished Kumaso, forgetting war and council and everything as he looked at the gentle intruder. He beckoned to the disguised Prince and bade him sit down and serve them with wine. Question: Why was Yamato Take gleeful? Answer: He knew his plan would succeed.
Context: One spring day Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: "That is how happy I was when you delivered me out of the block of ice," said the comrade. " Now he had once more been allowed to visit him; yet on this occasion he would have to part for all time, for the bells of heaven were calling him. Question: How did the comrade feel towards the youth? Answer: grateful
Context: 'Dan,' said the man in the moon, taking a pinch of snuff, when I was done, 'you must not stay here.' ' Faith, and with your leave,' says I, 'I'll not let go the grip, and the more you bids me the more I won't let go--so I will.' ' We'll see how that is to be,' says he; and back he went, giving the door such a great bang after him (for it was plain he was huffed), that I thought the moon and all would fall down with it. Question: Why was Daniel preparing himself after the man slammed the door? Answer: to try strength with the man
Context: "You have won your desire of the Great Spirit," said the beautiful stranger. " Your father will give you food to strengthen you, and as it is the last day of trial you will prevail. Question: What did Wunzh have to do once a month? Answer: cover the stranger with fresh earth
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. One Sunday, while the crew was ashore, and the captain had gone to a farm-holding near the forest, in order to bargain for small timber and log wood--presumably on his own account--for a deck load, the youth had been left to guard the ship. "No, you can see there's not," said the others, the wives of the first and second quartermasters. " It seemed to me as though some one were smoking in the forward cabin." Question: What will the cabin-boy try to do? Answer: use the counter-spell
Context: During the first half of the eighteenth century, several large estates in Schonen were the property of the family of Barnekow. A widow at twenty-nine, she herself took over the management of her large properties. Question: Who was Margaret Barnekow? Answer: daughter of the famous captain and governor-general Count Rutger of Aschenberg
Context: In the Skalunda mountain, near the church, there once lived a giant in the early days, who no longer felt comfortable after the church had been built there. He decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells; so he emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea. Question: Why did the giant move from his home? Answer: The curch had been built there.
Context: One day I heard some one say that the flower deserved a better pot. I was thumped hard on my back, which was a great affliction, and the flower was put into a better pot. Question: why was the pot thrown into the yard? Answer: because it wasn't good enough for the flower
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: How did the King feel when Jack returned his daughter to him? Answer: shocked
Context: As Dais-Imid stood looking at him--for he had been all this time invisible--he thought:  "I will let him have a view of me." The little hero of the shell replied:  "If you were to try to kill me you could not do it." Question: Why did Dais-Imid want Manabozho to see him? Answer: to humiliate him
Context: Years flew by, and every morning Uraschimataro sailed his boat into the deep sea. But one day as he was making for a little bay between some rocks, there arose a fierce whirlwind, which shattered his boat to pieces, and she was sucked under by the waves. Question: Why was Uraschimataro's boat shattered to pieces? Answer: He was making for a little bay between some rocks and there arose a fierce whirlwind.
Context: "Father, I will be very good while I am waiting for you to come back, so please bring me a present." His wife, catching up the child in her arms, ran as far as the gate, and watched him as he went down the road between the pines till he was lost in the haze of the distance and all she could see was his quaint peaked hat, and at last that vanished too. Question: What did the little girl request from her father? Answer: a present
Context: At length on his last little rush--Pickles found that the shop was empty. "This is the last straw," said Pickles, "let us close the shop." Question: What did the policement deliver to Ginger and Pickles? Answer: rates and taxes
Context: The giants used to put--each man of them--a shout of him every evening. There's some change in the caher[2] to-night," said the gentleman, when he heard the two shouts. Question: What will happen when the second giant is squeezed by the thong? Answer: The giant will promise the son anything.
Context: "Oh, they will spin it into threads and make coats for the men and dresses for the women. "It must be horrid to be a man," said the Black Sheep, "and not to have any wool grow on you at all. Question: What will the the farmers do with the sheep's wool? Answer: spin it into threads and make coats for the men and dresses for the women
Context: When the mourners saw a man coming towards them with nothing on but his nightshirt, they forgot in their fright what they were there for, and fled to hide themselves. Question: How did the mourners feel after they saw a man coming towards them with only his nightshirt on? Answer: startled
Context: The King sent off for his physician in ordinary, who washed Jack all over with various essences and salves, so that he became white and was a remarkably handsome young man. After some years Jack and his wife went to visit his father, but the farmer did not recognize him, and declared he had no son; he had had one, but that one was born with bristles like a hedgehog, and had gone off into the wide world. Question: How did the father feel when he recognized Jack my Hedgehog as his son? Answer: happy
Context: "Better," said she, "now that your clothes are dry, to think no more of the ducking than to go and all four of you get your heads broken, as you surely will. The little spirit or boy-man heard them roaring forth their threats as they approached, but he did not appear to be disquieted in the least. Question: Why did the mother suggest the boy was a monedo? Answer: The boy had powers.
Context: Then they took counsel together, and watched her to see what she did. Then she threw herself on her knees by the edge, and peered into the dark water, but the trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it. Question: What did one of the sisters see after she followed the youngest sister? Answer: a lovely fat fish
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. One evening during the winter season, it chanced that he remained out longer than usual, and his wife began to fear that some accident had befallen him. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: How will the wife feel about the two strange females? Answer: suspicious
Context: Amid the greetings of their new friends, Maidwa and the Red Swan, with the chief's daughter, took their leave by peep of day, and toward evening they reached the other town. When he came to those parts which related to the Red Swan, they turned and looked upon her in wonder and admiration, for she was very beautiful. Question: What did the chief inform Maidwa? Answer: Maidwa's brothers had been to their town in search of him, but that they had gone back some time before, having given up all hopes of ever seeing him again.
Context: Meanwhile the poor brother walked wearily along, wondering what other dreadful adventures were in store for him. He had struggled so long, and was so very, very tired; but he would not have minded that if he could have proved his innocence, and triumphed over his enemies. Question: Why did the elder brother want to die? Answer: He had struggled so long, and was so very, very tired.
Context: "This is a wonderful place," said the goblin; "I never expected such a thing. So he went downstairs again to the huckster's shop, and it was a good thing he got back when he did, for the cask had almost worn out the lady's tongue. Question: Why does the whole shop respect the cask now? Answer: because they all heard how smart he was
Context: To which the boy-man replied:  "Go, take hold of it, swallow it as fast as you can. The sister, who was watching all this time, opened wide her eyes as the huge fish came up and up upon the shore. Question: Who did the sister say her brother was no wiser than? Answer: Ko-ko
Context: I see that you can no longer live without me, and I thank you. At times he had to crawl, at others he had to stoop, for the way was very narrow. But when it grew better, he walked in advance, and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off. Question: Why did the youth need to walk beside the coach? Answer: The road was a little narrow there.
Context: A similar experience befell a man and his wife who lived in a hut known as Ingas, below Mosled. And when the actual mass began, there was found lying at every place some of the earth from the graves of those who shortly before had been worshiping. Question: What was found lying at every place? Answer: some of the earth from the graves of those who shortly before had been worshiping
Context: There was once a worthy old couple who lived on the coast, and supported themselves by fishing. This son's name was Uraschimataro, which means in Japanese, 'Son of the island,' and he was a fine well-grown youth and a good fisherman, minding neither wind nor weather. Question: Who was a fine well-grown youth and a good fisherman? Answer: Uraschimataro
Context: People may have heard of the renowned adventures of Daniel O'Rourke, but how few are there who know that the cause of all his perils, above and below, was neither more nor less than his having slept under the walls of the Pooka's Tower. He lived at the bottom of Hungry Hill, just at the right-hand side of the road as you go towards Bantry. Question: Where did Daniel live? Answer: at the bottom of Hungry Hill, just at the right-hand side of the road as you go towards Bantry
Context: When he came up to the shore he was surprised to see four large, tall men, lying on the ice, spearing fish. Seeing these four faces, as if they had been one, the little spirit or boy-man said to himself:  "Four in one! Question: Why did the four men put the boy off without notice? Answer: The boy was so little.
Context: A moment more and his brothers and sisters, and their parents and friends, were transformed into birds of various plumage. He again cast his eyes in the direction of the clouds, and uttered the peculiar cry which had given him the victory at the rock. Question: What did Oweenee's staff change into? Answer: a silver feather
Context: So when they had reached the gentleman's house, and the peasant had given him the pig, he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so. And the mill would grind out every kind of meal for which he asked. When the peasant awoke in the morning, he was in a great hurry to test his mill; but he could not make it obey. " Question: What did the gentleman give the peasant? Answer: a hand-mill
Context: But Lisa took a raspberry leaf, swept the worm carefully on to the leaf and carried it out into the yard. Then Aina noticed that a sparrow sitting on the fence was just ready to pounce on the poor little worm, so she took up the leaf, carried it out into the wood and hid it under a raspberry bush where the greedy sparrow could not find it. Question: Why did Aina carry the worm out into the wood? Answer: Aina noticed that a sparrow sitting on the fence was just ready to pounce on the poor little worm.
Context: But Sheen went gladly and light-heartedly into the House of Cletty, and when she saw the lovely lightsome house and the goodly nobles of the clan of Niall, and the feasting and banqueting and the playing of the minstrels and all the joyous noise of that kingly dwelling, her heart was lifted within her, and "Fair as a fairy palace is this house of Cletty," said she. "Fair, indeed, it is," replied the King; "for neither the Kings of Leinster nor the Kings of mighty Ulster, nor the lords of the clans of Owen or of Niall, have such a house as this; nay, in Tara of the Kings itself, no house to equal this house of mine is found." Question: What did the men say about Sheen? Answer: Never on earth was to be seen a woman more goodly of appearance than she.
Context: In the sand, as he drew closer to the land, he saw the tracks as of that animal fleeing away; and besides these the prints of human hands. He leaped upon a bank, and looking back, and casting upon Owasso a glance of deep reproach and grief, he exclaimed, "I am a wolf!" Question: What happened to Sheem the more his elder brother approached him? Answer: He fled faster, and the change went on more rapidly.
Context: Black Sheep did not reply to this, for she thought the old ram very ill-tempered and selfish, and believed he was doing wrong not to grow more wool. Finally the time came to shear the sheep again, and the farmer and his man came into the pasture to look at them, and were surprised to see what a fine, big fleece the Black Sheep had grown. Question: How many bags of wool did the Black Sheep make? Answer: three
Context: Wassamo felt himself moved, he knew not how, and placed upon a couch. It keeps me very busy, but I am hale for my age, and I love to be employed. I have often wished to get one of your race to marry among us. He was silent, and the Old Spirit continued: "Your wants will all be supplied; but you must be careful not to stray far from the lodge. Question: What did the Old Spirit-man do as the guardian Spirit of the Sand Mountains? Answer: pile sand up, and blow them about, and do whatever he will with them
Context: When he found himself safe on the ground, he peeped cautiously over the edge of the cliff to see if there were any seals lying on the rocks below. The seal catcher was now thoroughly frightened, for he felt sure that some evil was about to befall him. Question: How will the seal catcher feel after he believes will is about to befall on him? Answer: frightened
Context: I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child where he saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. When she saw me she gave a cry out of her, and she said, "Oh, my soul to God, if the master isn't come to life again." And when the mistress heard of it, she came to see with her own eyes, for she would not believe I was there. Question: What happened after the wolf broke the window and went in? Answer: His child began to kiss him.
Context: Once upon a time there were three little kittens, and their names were Mittens, Tom Kitten, and Moppet. They had dear little fur coats of their own; and they tumbled about the doorstep and played in the dust. Question: What was the name of one of the three kittens? Answer: Mittens
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: What did Setanta hang on his side? Answer: a sword of lath
Context: When the matter was settled the peasant might have turned back, for he had done the business he came to do. Leading the animal, he strode on sturdily, and, after a short time, overtook a man who was driving a sheep. Question: Who did the peasant meet on the way to the town? Answer: a man who was driving a sheep
Context: Suddenly the sea-troll rose from the deeps, setting the waves whirling and foaming far and near. The youth replied: "It seems to me that she is my princess, not yours." Silverwhite was nothing loath, and set his dogs at the dogs of the troll. And when the king's daughter and her escort saw him, they were very much frightened, thinking he was the sea-troll. Question: How will Silverwhite save the second princess? Answer: kill the troll himself with his sword
Context: "Well, whether you be crooked or straight, you will have to let me pass," said Per Gynt. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: What did Per Gynt want to do in the cottage? Answer: lay aside his firelock and his hunting bag
Context: Now the poor labourer was but a clumsy dancer, and he held back with a shamefaced air. For in a moment he found himself waltzing and whirling, sliding and bowing, as if he had done nothing else but dance all his life. Question: Why did the poor man start dancing? Answer: Some strange magic seemed to enter into his veins.
Context: Soon after the giant went to fetch his brother who was likewise a giant, to take a meal off his flesh; and Jack saw with terror through the bars of his prison the two giants approaching. Jack, perceiving in one corner of the room a strong cord, took courage, and making a slip-knot at each end, he threw them over their heads, and tied it to the window-bars; he then pulled till he had choked them. Question: What did Jack throw over the giants' head? Answer: a strong cord with a slip-knot at each end
Context: She was stingier, and only offered fifty dollars; but she had to raise her bid until she reached three hundred. When she had the whistle in her hands, she tied it fast, and hid it well, but she fared not a whit better than either of the others. Question: What did the queen do to try and keep the whistle? Answer: tied it fast and hid it well
Context: Bokwewa and his brother lived in a far-off part of the country. They lived off the path, in a wild, lonesome place, far retired from neighbors, and, undisturbed by cares, they passed their time, content and happy. Question: How did Kwasynd look? Answer: manly
Context: They went out into the woods, and at the close of the afternoon they brought back a great spoil of meat of all kinds. As the young man appeared to doubt, she added, "Feign yourself sick when you go home to her lodge; and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails you, say that you wish to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful brother the dog, in striving to save you, tore off these pieces which I show you." Question: Who was the old Toad-Woman? Answer: a child-thief
Context: The Daimio was so transported with joy that he looked as if he would go mad. He himself gave the old man a wine cup filled with the best SAKE, and rewarded him with much silver and gold and many other precious things. Question: What was the old man sent home with? Answer: great honor
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: Why did Allen enjoy destroying Tara? Answer: He liked to mock the king.
Context: 'With that, my dear, he took up the goose by the two wings--criss o' my cross an you,' says he, markin' her to grace with the blessed sign at the same minute. With that, my jewel, she took to her heels, flyin' like one o' the eagles themselves, and cuttin' as many capers as a swallow before a shower of rain. Away she went down there, right in front of you, along the side o' the cliff, and flew over Saint Kavin's bed (that is, where Saint Kavin's bed is now, but was not then, by reason as it wasn't made, but was contrived after by Saint Kavin himself, that the women might leave him alone). Question: What will the king do after seeing the goose fly? Answer: be happy
Context: The giants used to put--each man of them--a shout of him every evening. There's some change in the caher[2] to-night," said the gentleman, when he heard the two shouts. Question: How will the second giant feel towards the son? Answer: unhappy
Context: The tree, at this bidding, rose up so far that Owasso would have imperiled his neck by any attempt to get to the ground. I now present you this boy, who has had the presumption to climb up where you are to molest your young. So saying, the old magician, according to his custom in such cases, turned his back upon Owasso. Question: What did the old bald eagle do? Answer: asked what had brought Owasso there
Context: Sentaro had often heard the tale of the Chinese King named Shin-no-Shiko. Ah-if only he could find the "Elixir of Life," he would be happy. Question: What did Shin-no-Shiko think would make him happy? Answer: "Elixir of Life"
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: Why did Sylvia think Princess Cynthia was the happiest princess in the world? Answer: Princess Cynthia had a thousand lovers who vied with one another in their efforts to please and gratify her.
Context: At the time when the animals reigned in the earth, they had killed all the people but a girl and her little brother. You must hide yourself, and you will soon see the snow-birds come and pick the worms out of the logs which I have piled up. Question: How will the boy feel when he comes home unsuccessful? Answer: sad
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: Where did the lad go when his master and the other people were gone? Answer: the castle of the three giants
Context: When the troll saw that his attempt had failed, he was much alarmed and said: "Dearest Lillwacker, I will give you wergild for your brother, if you will only leave me alone." But the youth answered:  "What is there you can give me that will compensate for my brother's life?" The troll agreed, climbed down from the tree, breathed on the dogs and thus freed them. Lillwacker now ran back to his brother and sprinkled him with the liquid in the other flask, so that he came to life again, and they were both very happy, as may well be imagined. Question: How will Lillwacker use the two flasks? Answer: save his brother and kill the troll
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: How will the king feel when the wolf loses the child? Answer: angry
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: Who did the hare see swimming near the island? Answer: a great crocodile
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What did Brown Allree tell Morraha to do? Answer: dismount and give her her dinner
Context: said Jemima Puddle-duck, with her head and her bonnet on one side--"Quack?" He had a long bushy tail which he was sitting upon, as the stump was somewhat damp. Question: How does the story describe the gentleman's appereance? Answer: He had a long bushy tail which he was sitting upo. He also had sandy whiskers.
Context: As they went on and came to the lodge of the first old man, their reception and farewell were the same; and when Maidwa glanced to the corner, the silent kettle, which had been the first acquaintance he had made in that family on his travels, was not there. The old man smiled when he discovered the direction of Maidwa's glance, but he said nothing. Question: What was the chief's daughter doing when Maidwa and the Red Swan arrived? Answer: engaged in coloring a girdle
Context: This relieved Finn very much, for, after all, he had great confidence in his wife, knowing, as he did, that she had got him out of many a quandary before. Having everything now prepared, she sent round to the neighbours and borrowed one-and-twenty iron griddles, which she took and kneaded into the hearts of one-and-twenty cakes of bread, and these she baked on the fire in the usual way, setting them aside in the cupboard according as they were done. Question: What happened after Oonagh prepared the threads? Answer: Oonagh sent round to the neighbors and borrowed one-and-twenty iron griddles.
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. She paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife. Question: What did the king's daughter become with each succeeding day? Answer: taller and more beautiful
Context: So the sea-sucker came, and lay down and took two or three swallows, and thus lowered the water so that the giant could see the king's son and the Master Girl out on the ship. " But no sooner were they thus far than the Master Girl told the king's son to pour a drop or so of the bottle overboard, and the sea grew so full that they had landed before the sea-sucker could so much as take a single swallow. Question: What did the hill-borer do? Answer: bored a hole through the rock
Context: said Per Gynt, and he poured the whole kettleful of soup over his nose. Then laughter and jibes came from every corner, and one voice said: "Now Per Gynt will be no better off than the dairy-maids in the hut at Val!" Question: What was the cause of the noise and tumult outside? Answer: a wagon drawn by bears
Context: Dschou Ling on his return told of this happening, and begged that
temples be erected in honor of the Queen of Heaven, and that she be
included in the list of the gods. Since then temples of the Queen of Heaven are to be found in all
sea-port towns, and her birthday is celebrated on the eighth day of
the fourth month with spectacles and sacrifices. Question: How did Dschou Ling feel when he heard that the Queen of Heaven saved the seamen? Answer: grateful
Context: Later on Li Dsing and his three sons, Gintscha, Mutscha and Notscha, aided King Wu of the Dschou dynasty to destroy the tyrant Dschou-Sin. But the Great One carried him into his cave, healed his wound and gave him three goblets of the wine of the gods to drink, and three fire-dates to eat. Question: What did the Great One give to Notscha to heal his wound? Answer: three goblets of the wine of the gods to drink, and three fire-dates to eat
Context: But the Fairy Queen suddenly tightened her rein, and the grey palfrey stopped short in its wild career. For he saw three roads leading across it now, which he had not noticed before, and each of these three roads was different. Question: What did the Queen of Fairies plan to show Thomas? Answer: hidden things
Context: Then he packed all my dolls into the box, and fastened it on my back, and I felt as if I were spinning round in a circle. The puppets had become distinguished actors--at least, so they said themselves--and I was their director. Question: what happened after the man found himself on the floor? Answer: the puppets became distinguished actors
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: Why was the old man happy when the young man entered his dwelling? Answer: The old man was no longer alone.
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: Where did the poor couple live? Answer: in a great forest
Context: One day Momotaro came to his foster-father and said solemnly:  "Father, by a strange chance we have become father and son. Your goodness to me has been higher than the mountain grasses which it was your daily work to cut, and deeper than the river where my mother washes the clothes. Question: How did Momotaro feel towards his parents? Answer: grateful
Context: "Yes, it was I," answered the man: "I have an earnest request to make to you. "I want you to kill my mortal enemy the centipede, who lives on the mountain beyond," and the Dragon King pointed to a high peak on the opposite shore of the lake. Question: Where did the centipede live? Answer: the mountain beyond
Context: The butchers were sent for, and they were ready to kill the bracket bull as soon as he came in. The next day, when the lad was herding the cows on the mountain, the bracket bull came and said to him, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough now. Question: What will the stepmother do when she realizes the butchers failed a second time? Answer: kill the bracket bull
Context: It was the rainy season at Nara, and floods were reported every day as doing damage in the neighborhood. An Imperial Edict was sent forth to all the Buddhist temples commanding the priests to offer up continuous prayers to Heaven to stop the noise of the flood. Question: What disturbed the Emperor's rest day and night? Answer: the roaring of the torrents of water rushing along a narrow bed
Context: He had never heard such music since the hour that he was born. So he blessed the little white singing-bird, and gladly went his way. Question: What did the Abbot do after he heard the bird sing? Answer: blessed the little white singing-bird
Context: 'I certainly think that there will not be more than two,' said Jonas, 'there are never more than two when they slay children and rams. 'But, you see, Jonas,' said Walter, 'if there are two, it might still happen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg. Question: What did Jonas call Walter after he did not want to hunt wolves by himself? Answer: a coward
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: What was the couple's one cause for great sorrow? Answer: No child was born to them.
Context: After talking with them a little while, he discovered that whenever he addressed the one on his left hand, the tree would tremble as before and settle down to its former place; but when he addressed the one on his right hand, it would again shoot upward. Onwee then descended, and learning that these sisters had a brother living with their father, who had shared all together in the spoils of all such as the wicked sisters had betrayed, and who would now pursue him for having put an end to their wicked profits, Onwee set off at random, not knowing whither he went. Question: Why did Ownee continue to address the sister on the his left hand? Answer: He wanted to get closer to the ground.
Context: Long, long ago, one bright autumn day in Japan, it happened, that a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab were playing together along the bank of a river. Then the monkey held up his persimmon-seed and said:  "I also have found something good! Question: How did the crab feel when he found the rice-dumpling? Answer: excited
Context: The whole day the Snow-man looked through the window; towards dusk the room grew still more inviting; the stove gave out a mild light, not at all like the moon or even the sun; no, as only a stove can shine, when it has something to feed upon. When the door of the room was open, it flared up-this was one of its peculiarities; it flickered quite red upon the Snow-man's white face. where he had stood there remained a broomstick standing upright, round which the boys had built him! Question: How will the Snow-man feel when he cannot reach the stove before he melts? Answer: sad
Context: When the mother heard that she thought it might not be such a bad idea after all. The youth took the shortest path to the mother in the corner, and sang and danced, as he always did. Question: What happened when the youth set foot on the clump of grass? Answer: He went down and down until he was standing in a dark, ugly hole.
Context: As the goat flew upward, the comrade swung himself up in back, and then they were off like the wind through the clouds: it was not a long journey. Suddenly they stood before a wall of rock, she knocked, and then they took their way into the interior of the hill, to the troll who was her dearest. " Question: What will happen because the comrade saw where the troll had placed the shears? Answer: He will take them back.
Context: The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: How did the hunter separate a portion of the hunt for the mysterious females? Answer: tied up a share of the hunt and placed it apart for the mysterious females' express use
Context: You have but three days more, and your term will be completed. The father addressed Iadilla as he had the day before, and promised that he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him by the dawn of the morning. Question: What will happen if Iadilla breaks his fast? Answer: glory will depart
Context: Jack next took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore, and went into the castle again. He then very politely gave them the keys of the castle, and went further on his journey to Wales. Question: Why were the ladies starving? Answer: because the refused to eat the flesh of their won dead husbands
Context: After waiting several days, as the dog Shiro did not return, his master began to grow anxious. Without any shame or hesitation, the wicked neighbor answered that he had killed Shiro because of his bad behavior. Question: How did the old man feel when Shiro did not return? Answer: anxious
Context: cried the antelope, 'for I was doing no harm, yet I have been caught. Come back here with the new moon, when I shall have eaten the antelope, and I will reward you as I promised.' Question: How does the python describe himself? Answer: Insato, King of all Reptiles
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Why did Setanta fancy the great school of martial exercises and military art? Answer: He had a passion for arms and the martial life.
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. So they took him to be christened, and the parson said: 'You'll never be able to put that child in a decent bed on account of his prickles.' His father grew very tired of him and often wished him dead, but he did not die, but lay on there year after year. Question: Why did the farmer and his wife christen their child? Answer: Their son was half-hedgehog.
Context: And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and he saw the young man coming. But he went against her will, and he saw the currach coming, and the young man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach. Question: Why did the woman forbid Morraha from playing with the young man? Answer: He would lose more.
Context: It seemed a very long time to her to wait till her husband returned. He seemed very tired and used the scythe for a walking stick, leaning on it as he walked along. Question: Why was the man tired? Answer: He worked hard.
Context: In the mean time, Aggo Dah Gauda had reached home, and finding that his daughter had been stolen, his indignation was so thoroughly awakened that he would have forthwith torn every hair from his head, but, being entirely bald, this was out of the question, so, as an easy and natural vent to his feelings, Aggo hopped off half a mile in every direction. There having been a frosty night or two since, the water was so covered with thin ice that Aggo could not venture upon it, even with one leg. Question: What did Aggo do to cross over the lake? Answer: encamped hard by till it became more solid
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: Who did Sylvia stay with for three months? Answer: Princess Cynthia
Context: When he came near enough for the soldiers to see him, they sent to ask whether he had a mind to attack them. "I don't care a fig for these blueberries," said Murmur Goose-Egg, and feasted on quite at ease. Question: Why did Murmur Goose-Egg not have a mind to attack the soldiers yet? Answer: He wanted to eat first.
Context: The old woman now ran into the little room and brought out from the cupboard the big peach. When the old man looked at the peach he was greatly astonished and said:  "This is indeed the largest peach I have ever seen! Question: What will the old man and woman do to the peach? Answer: eat it
Context: There was once a king in Ireland, and he had three daughters, and very nice princesses they were. And one day, when they and their father were walking on the lawn, the king began to joke with them, and to ask them whom they would like to be married to. ' Question: What did the princesses do after the youngest princess told them who she wanted to marry? Answer: laughed, and they joked with the princess all the rest of the evening
Context: When the ashes in the censer fly up into the air without any cause,
and are scattered about, it is a sign that great danger is
threatening. Suddenly the Queen of Heaven appeared at the
tip of the banner-staff. Question: What happened when the Queen of Heaven appeared at the tip of the banner-staff? Answer: In another moment she had disappeared, but the invasion was successful.
Context: He shed tears of pity to see that his brother had laid aside the arms of a hunter, and that he was beating corn with the women, indifferent to the fate and the fortune of his lost wife. As he pressed on, Bokwewa came in sight of innumerable herds of stately deer, moose, and other animals which walked near his path, and they appeared to have no fear of man. Question: What did Bokwewa see walking near his path? Answer: animals
Context: of course it is a very handy way of getting meat when a man has a beast of his own to kill. Handing over the cow, he received in exchange the pig, who was turned out of his wheelbarrow and was to be led by a string. Question: What did the butcher give in exchange for the cow? Answer: a pig
Context: In the evening her husband returned from hunting a long way off, and found his wife in tears. 'Well, never mind now--go to sleep,' said he, 'and to-morrow I will go and pull up the pumpkin tree, and that will punish her for treating you so badly.' Question: How did the brother feel after he saw his wife in tears? Answer: mad
Context: After a time Aduan gradually slipped to the end of his file and Rose of Evening also drew near to him, so that they stood only a few feet away from each other. When all the dances had ended, the dancers marched out with the goose-step. Question: What will happen to Aduan after he meets Rose of Evening? Answer: He will be sick with longing.
Context: After a time the priest came by, and he was so old and decrepit that his wife and daughter led him. When the priest had been led to the pulpit he delivered what seemed to the listening schoolmaster a really fine and edifying sermon--but one, it appeared to him, of quite a peculiar trend of thought, which he was not always able to follow. Question: Why did the schoolmaster agree to go along? Answer: He thought it might be amusing to see how these people worshiped God.
Context: So the winter went on, till at last the spring sun mounted higher in the heavens and began to warm the earth. The grass grew green in the fields, and high in the air the larks were heard singing. Question: Why did Snowflake burst into tears and weep? Answer: Spring was coming.
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: Who was the enchanter? Answer: Allen, son of Midna
Context: She even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor. Question: How had Hase-Hime become a poetess of some merit? Answer: She was very diligent.
Context: His mother came to the door, clasped her hands together over her head, and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods. And then she decorated her room, and she herself, in her old days, went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction. Question: What did the mother do with her small fortune? Answer: decorated her room
Context: In the meantime the Master Girl sat by the seashore, and waited and waited; but no king's son came. But the whole hut was as dark and dirty as a pig-sty; therefore the Master Girl said she would clean up a bit, so that things would look as they did in other, decent people's houses. Question: How did the old woman feel when the Master Girl began to clean? Answer: angry
Context: And now her two sisters found her to be that fine, beautiful lady whom they had seen at the ball. Cinderella, who was no less good than beautiful, gave her two sisters lodgings in the palace, and that very same day matched them with two great lords of the Court. Question: What will Cinderella do after the two sisters beg pardon for all the ill-treatment they made her undergo? Answer: forgive them
Context: When the fifth day of the eight had passed, it was plain to her that there was a child in the egg, which kept on calling: "Herring and mush, porridge and milk," and so she punched a hole in the egg. It was quite disgustingly homely, with a big head and a small body. Question: What did the woman do because she knew there was a child in the egg? Answer: punched a hole in the egg
Context: After waiting several days, as the dog Shiro did not return, his master began to grow anxious. Without any shame or hesitation, the wicked neighbor answered that he had killed Shiro because of his bad behavior. Question: Why did the neighbor confess to killing Shiro without shame? Answer: He was a bad person.
Context: He acquired all sorts of magic powers by means of which he extended his life-span. He agreed to give him a hundred pieces of copper daily; yet he did not pay him, and finally he owed him seven million, two hundred thousand pieces of copper. Question: Where did Laotsze plan to go? Answer: to the West
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: How did Iris feel losing her beauty? Answer: unhappy
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: What did the poor man do after the small woman threatened him? Answer: set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it
Context: Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed. I am now obliged, whether I like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, and marry her daughter. Question: What happened after the youngest princess threw away the bear's hide? Answer: The husband needed to marry the witch's daughter.
Context: said Murmur Goose-Egg, when he had reached the royal castle, and he flung down the knapsack full of money before the king, so that the whole castle tottered. The king thanked him kindly, and promised him a good reward, and a good character, if he wanted it; but Murmur only wanted more work to do. Question: Why did not one venture to go to the castle by the sea? Answer: It was dangerous.
Context: said Murmur Goose-Egg, when he had reached the royal castle, and he flung down the knapsack full of money before the king, so that the whole castle tottered. The king thanked him kindly, and promised him a good reward, and a good character, if he wanted it; but Murmur only wanted more work to do. Question: Why did the king send Murmur to the hill-troll? Answer: He wanted to get rid of Murmur.
Context: "Brothers," he said, "I have invited you to partake with me of the offerings made by the mortals on earth, which have been brought by our relation," pointing to Wassamo. " And it was understood that the petitioners were to have all they asked, and that Wassamo was thenceforward fairly accepted as a member of the great family of Spirits. Question: Why did the Old Spirit's brothers accept Wassamo? Answer: Wassamo brought tobacco.
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: What did the mother and father do after they gave her the two items? Answer: gave her their blessing
Context: The wicked neighbor, as before, heard of the good old man's fortune, and of all that had so auspiciously befallen him. He called to mind how he had failed in his attempt to find the gold coins, and then in making the magic cakes. Question: Why did the neighbor want to imitate the old man? Answer: envy and jealously filled his heart
Context: Grandmother is very old, her face is wrinkled, and her hair is quite white; but her eyes are like two stars, and they have a mild, gentle expression in them when they look at you, which does you good. She has a hymn-book with large silver clasps, in which she often reads; and in the book, between the leaves, lies a rose, quite flat and dry; it is not so pretty as the roses which are standing in the glass, and yet she smiles at it most pleasantly, and tears even come into her eyes. Question: What does Grandmother keep in her hymn book that makes her smile? Answer: a dried rose
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: Why did Hyacinthia have no desire to live? Answer: Her bridegroom, the beautiful Prince Milan, has deserted her.
Context: He awoke in a fright, while the hamper was being lifted into the carrier's cart. Then there was a jolting, and a clattering of horse's feet; other packages were thrown in; for miles and miles-jolt-jolt-jolt! Question: What sounds did Timmy Willie hear when he wakes up? Answer: clattering of horse's feet
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What arm did the snake tell the girl to use? Answer: her other arm
Context: The son had often heard tell of her, and one fall, when his parents had already come home from the mountain pasture, he put on his full uniform, saddled his service horse, thrust his pistols in the holsters, and thus rode up into the hills. When he rode toward the pasture, such a fire burned in the herdsman's hut that it lit up every road, and then he knew that the mountain folk were inside. Question: How could the son tell the maiden had only just arrived? Answer: Everything was in disorder.
Context: After he had heard him swear this terrible oath, the Wolf thought that his suspicions must be groundless, and he would have let the matter rest; but the Fox, having an uneasy conscience, could not do so. As this did not suit him at all, he next proposed that they should go for a walk, "for," said he, "it is now quite plain that neither of us can have taken the butter. Question: Why did the Wolf say that neither of them could have taken the butter? Answer: He began to feel unpleasantly warm.
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: Where did the poor man work? Answer: on a farm in Lanarkshire
Context: After they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. One day they agreed to kill each a male of that kind of animal, which each was most expert in hunting, for the purpose of making quivers from their skins. Question: What happened after the two younger brothers were able to hunt and take care of themselves? Answer: The elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives.
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: Who was Prince Toyanari Fujiwara? Answer: a wise State minister
Context: When Pryderi heard of it, he was very wroth, and wished to stay and fight. Question: Why didn't Pryderi fight the saddlers? Answer: The counsels of Manawyddan prevailed, and they moved by night to another city.
Context: But Earl St. Clair forgot that he carried a Talisman which his companion lacked, that enabled him to see things as they really were, while the other's eyes were holden, and he was startled and amazed when Earl Gregory said sharply, "Thy mind hath gone mad over this Elfin King. And because I love a gallant horseman, and would fain learn his name and degree, I will follow him till I find him, even if it be at the world's end." Question: Where did Earl Gregory follow the horseman to? Answer: the most desolate region
Context: And Murtough, in his sleep and in his dreams, heard the battle-shout, and he rose impetuously from off his bed, but the wine overcame him, and his strength departed from him, and he fell helplessly upon the floor. She called upon Cairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people, the men of Owen and of Niall, and together they went to the fort; but Sheen guarded it well, so that they could by no means find an entrance. Question: How did Duivsech know what was going on? Answer: She suspected the new bride was trouble.
Context: Then they led them into the cave and served them with tea and wine. "I have been destined for the lord Liu," said the maiden in the red
gown; "and my sister is for the lord Yuan!" Question: Why were the maidens getting married to the scholars? Answer: The maidens believed they were destined for the two scholars.
Context: "It was all very strange," answered the inn-keeper, "and my mother who had been very busy in his house, came home and fell into a violent fever. She came to on the very day when the news of Sir Wang's death was made public, and said: 'I have been to the Nether World and I met him there. Question: Who met Wang in the Nether World? Answer: the inn-keeper's mother
Context: As to the other of the two scholars, Yuan Dschau, he was not so
fortunate. When he came home he found that his wife and child had long
since died, and his grand-children and great-grand-children were
mostly useless people. Question: Where did Yuan Dschau return to? Answer: the hills
Context: So they did; but the other ducks round them looked at them and said, quite loud, "Look there! Now we've got to have all this mob on the top of us, as if there weren't enough of us already; and poof! Question: What did the other duckling do after it couldn't stand the ugly duckling? Answer: rushed at him and bit him in the neck
Context: When he stood before the door at home, he turned around; and there lay many, many hundred yards of the finest linen, finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun. And when she saw the linen, stretching as far as she could see, and then a bit, she could not believe her eyes, until the youth told her how it all happened. Question: What happened after the woman had not a bite to eat in the house? Answer: She told her son that it was the highest time of him to take service.
Context: So the winter went on, till at last the spring sun mounted higher in the heavens and began to warm the earth. The grass grew green in the fields, and high in the air the larks were heard singing. Question: How did Marie feel when Snowflake sat quite still by the window of the cottage? Answer: worried
Context: When he stood before the door at home, he turned around; and there lay many, many hundred yards of the finest linen, finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun. And when she saw the linen, stretching as far as she could see, and then a bit, she could not believe her eyes, until the youth told her how it all happened. Question: Why were the mother and son able to live in joy and comfort? Answer: They had plenty of clothes to wear.
Context: "Naubesah, you little fool," said the mother, "mind your bow and arrows, and do not be afraid to enter the forest in search of birds and squirrels, with your little brother. The boys obeyed, but as they grew older and still noticed the visits of the stranger, they resolved to speak again to their mother. Question: Why did the boys want to tell their father all that they had witnessed? Answer: They frequently saw this young man passing through the woods, and he did not walk in the path, nor did he carry any thing to eat.
Context: For a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower. She seated herself on the rock, put her hand to her cheek, cried, and thought of her unkind step-mother and step-sisters, and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned. When she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man, who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble. Question: How did the king's daughter feel about spending the night on the hill-top? Answer: very sad
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: How did the brother feel after he heard about his sister? Answer: jealous
Context: Wassamo was living with his parents on the shore of a large bay, far out in the north-east. The cousin, being the elder, attended to the nets, and they encamped near by, using the bark of the birch for a lodge to shelter them through the night. Question: What did Wassamo and the cousin use to shelter them through the night? Answer: the bark of the birch
Context: Those who hold it are too powerful for the magician, and many have sacrificed themselves to recover it for him, but without success. He will show you the course to take, and if you feel inclined, as I see that you do, go forward, my son, with a strong heart; persevere, and I have a presentiment that you will succeed. Question: What will happen to Maidwa if he catches the Red Swan? Answer: He will receive the Red Swan as his reward.
Context: cried the wicked father, making his appearance at the opening and looking down. When he looked back and saw that the wicked father was gaining upon him, Ko-koor mounted a tree, as had Onwee Bahmondang before, and fired off a number of arrows, but as they were no more than common arrows, he got nothing by it, but was obliged to descend, and run again for life. Question: How will Ko-ko feel about fighting the father? Answer: excited
Context: So he gave up the fowl and received the apples, which he carried into the inn parlor. The Englishmen were so rich that their pockets bulged and seemed ready to burst; and they could bet too, as you shall hear. Question: What was happening to the apples on the stove? Answer: They were beginning to roast.
Context: The pheasant was now made a member of Momotaro's suite, and received half a cake. Momotaro's influence was so great that the three became good friends, and hurried onwards with him as their leader. Question: Who was the leader? Answer: Momotaro
Context: Then he opened the shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke small little bits of sticks for the rowers' seats. Some of the shells got broken, some remained whole, and when all were ready Lasse had twelve boats. Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water, and they floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over the waves of the ocean. Question: How many boats did Little Lasse have? Answer: twelve
Context: You are not even like an ordinary man, for you are exceptionally idle. I will send you to the country of Perpetual Life, where death never comes-where the people live forever!" Question: What would carry Sentaro to the country of Perpetual Life? Answer: a little crane made of paper
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Hidesato was astonished at the feast that was spread for him. As soon as they sat down, the sliding doors opened and ten lovely goldfish dancers came out, and behind them followed ten red-carp musicians with the koto and the samisen. Question: What happened because of the beautiful music and dancing? Answer: banished all thoughts of the centipede
Context: It was lucky that the horse was sure-footed and knew the road, for his bridle hung loose on his neck, and his master took no heed of the way he was going. When the farm-house was reached, the man led the animal to the stable, and then went to look for his son. Question: Where did the son go after his father kicked him out? Answer: in a cave on the side of his hill
Context: It was the Festival of the Cherry Flowers, and there were great festivities at the Court. The Emperor threw himself into the enjoyment of the season, and commanded that Princess Hase should perform before him on the koto, and that her mother Princess Terute should accompany her on the flute. Question: How did the festivities of the Cherry Flowers make the Emperor feel? Answer: happy
Context: There was once a king, called King O'Toole, who was a fine old king in the old ancient times, long ago. Well, the King (you see) was the right sort--he was the real boy, and loved sport as he loved his life, and huntin' in particular. Question: Where did the king go to catch the deer? Answer: over the mountains
Context: You can see how many soldiers I have, and if the king chooses to listen to me, we can agree to become friends, I will aid him against all his enemies, and what we undertake will succeed." And the more they brought the king's officers to eat, the stronger they inclined to the opinion that the king's daughter would make a good wife for the duke. Question: Who would make a good wife for the duke according to the king's officers? Answer: the king's daughter
Context: Duchess read the letter and wrote an answer:--"I will come with much pleasure at a quarter past four. And then she thought that did not look quite polite; so she scratched out "isn't mouse" and changed it to "I hope it will be fine," and she gave her letter to the postman. Question: Why does Duchess say that something is very strange? Answer: because she was about to invite Ribby to supper
Context: You must not rouse my anger with your violence, or I will skin you, together with that old mud-fish, your father!" Then Notscha took his golden armlet and struck him on the forehead with it, so that he had to reveal himself in his true form as a golden dragon, and fall down dead. Question: How did the Dragon-King's son feel when he met Notscha? Answer: angry
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Putting up his spade, he wended his way homewards, and going straight to his master, he told him the whole story. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: Why did the Fairies trap the poor man? Answer: He did not listen to the fairy's warning.
Context: Then the cat went far and farther than far, until she came into the parish. I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush and the fox, the sly-boots, and the hopping hare and the wild wolf and the little bear brown-coat and the biting mother bear and bruin good-fellow and now I'm thinking whether I ought not to eat you up as well," said she, and she pounced on the whole bridal party, and ate it up, with the cook, the musicians, the horses and all. Question: Who else did the cat eat with the whole bridal party? Answer: the cook, the musicians, the horses, and all
Context: said the Snow-man, by which he meant the sun was appearing again. ' I wish I knew, though, how one ought to see about changing one's position. If I only could, I would glide up and down the ice there, as I saw the boys doing; but somehow or other, I don't know how to run.' Question: Who was rather hoarse and couldn't bark very well? Answer: the old yard-dog
Context: Running crab-fashion up the stony river bank, over the pathways into the shadowy forest, the crab at last found the monkey taking an afternoon nap in his favorite pine-tree, with his tail curled tight around a branch to prevent him from falling off in his dreams. When he heard that the seed which he had long ago exchanged for a rice-dumpling had grown into a tree and was now bearing good fruit, he was delighted, for he at once devised a cunning plan which would give him all the persimmons for himself. Question: Why did the monkey agree to help the crab? Answer: He wanted to trick the crab.
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. When it had been cooked it was fetched to me for the purpose of dividing it. Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. At the brink of one fountain lay a rude iron vessel, and a vessel of bronze at the brink of the other. Question: How will Conan feel hearing Fionn's stories? Answer: excited
Context: 'I will go into the castle and get tidings of the dogs,' said Pryderi at last. 'Truly,' answered Manawyddan, 'thou wouldst do unwisely, for whosoever has cast a spell over this land has set this castle here.' Question: Where did the boar run to? Answer: the castle
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: How will Murtough feel when he realizes he has been tricked by Sheen? Answer: betrayed
Context: "But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift, do not repel him, or kill him?" Last year (though it was a shame to me that I, who am the high King over all Ireland, should not be able myself to defend Tara) I summoned Gaul mac Morna and all the Fians to my assistance. Question: What happened to the soldiers after they heard the fairy music? Answer: All subsided upon the grass in deep slumber.
Context: ONCE upon a time there were five women who were standing in a field, mowing. And suddenly they saw a goose-egg of quite unheard-of size, well-nigh as large as a man's head. " Question: What happened when the women first saw the goose-egg? Answer: They argued who saw it first.
Context: Then Hidesato called to the Dragon King to come out with him on the balcony, for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear. Then all the inhabitants of the palace came out with joy, and Hidesato pointed to the lake. Question: How did the Dragon King and his family feel towards the warrior? Answer: respect
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: What made the King believe Jack my Hedgehog's promise was easy to fulfill? Answer: The King would cheat on his promise.
Context: He sat up slowly and rubbed his eyes, and crossly demanded what his wife was making all that noise about. By the time that the man was alive to what had happened, and they both got outside the gate, the boar had got well away, but they saw the monkey running after the thief as hard as his legs would carry him. Question: Who ran after the thief? Answer: the monkey
Context: One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passing along the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleating loudly. So he went up to where it was standing, and as it seemed so tired that it could hardly walk, he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued on his way. Question: What made William jump? Answer: A voice spoke out from over his head.
Context: Murmur Goose-Egg wanted the king to be the first to try the bridge with him. If she does not catch hold of me, then I'll certainly not catch hold of her," said the devil. " Question: What happened after the devil flew home? Answer: Since then nothing more has been heard or seen of him.
Context: With these words he went quietly up the back stairs to the garret, where the student lived. He stood still on tiptoe, peeping in, till the light went out. As soon as the evening light glimmered in the garret, he took courage, for it seemed to him that the rays of light were strong cables, drawing him up and obliging him to go and peep through the keyhole. But that was out of the question; he must be content to look through the keyhole and be thankful for even that. He found him standing by the open window and looking quite calmly at the fire, which was raging in the house of a neighbor opposite. It was then that he understood what feelings were really strongest in his heart and knew exactly which way they tended. Question: Why did the goblin save the book? Answer: it made such a glorious tree of light
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: Who was not pleased at the preservation of the boy? Answer: Culain
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: What made the King feel thirsty? Answer: It was hot.
Context: The winter was nearly passed away, when, one evening, the hunter was abroad later than usual. The moment he came in and laid down his day's hunt, as was his custom, before his wife, the two females seized upon the deer and began to tear off the fat in so unceremonious a way that her anger was excited. Question: How did the strange guests feel when they observed the state of the wife's mind? Answer: uneasy
Context: At one time a buffalo would gain handsomely upon Aggo, and be just at the point of laying hold of him, when off Aggo would hop, a good furlong, in an oblique line, wide out of his reach; which bringing him nearly in contact with another of the herd, away he would go again, just as far off in another direction. It was an extraordinary road that Aggo was taking toward home; and after a time it so puzzled and bewildered the buffalos that they were driven half out of their wits, and they roared, and brandished their tails, and foamed, as if they would put out of countenance and frighten out of sight the old man in the moon, who was looking on all the time, just above the edge of the prairie. Question: What happened after Aggo kept the buffalos zig-zagging? Answer: The buffalos were driven half out of their wits.
Context: The summer and the autumn passed; the rose-tree bore roses and buds till the snow fell and the weather became raw and wet; then it bent down its head, and the snail crept into the ground. You have given the world all that you had in you; whether it was of much importance is a question that I have not had time to think about. Question: How does the rose tree feel after the snail talks to it? Answer: frightened
Context: "Close your flowers and fold your leaves," said the old willow. " Even human beings dare not do that, for in the midst of the lightning one may look straight into God's heaven. Question: What does the buckwheat do? Answer: looks at the lightning
Context: 'And my wife told me that I myself was dead,' said the man in the coffin. But at the sound of his voice the two men were so terrified that they ran straight home. Question: Why were the two men scared after they heard the man from the coffin talk? Answer: The man from the coffin was alive.
Context: Watanabe, the second knight, could not bear the thought that his companion should believe he was afraid, so he answered quickly:  "Of course, I will go at once and find out for myself!" So Watanabe at once got ready to go-he buckled on his long sword and put on a coat of armor, and tied on his large helmet. Question: What happened because Watanabe did not want others to believe he was afraid? Answer: He said he would go.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: How did the Abbot pray while praying for a great player for Ireland? Answer: with all his might
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: How will the master feel that his servant believed in fairies? Answer: vex
Context: While sleeping, the sun beat so hot upon him that it not only singed his bird-skin coat, but it so shrivelled and shrunk and tightened it upon the little boy's body, as to wake him up. "Do not think you are too high," said he; "I shall revenge myself. He bade his sister make a snare, for, he informed her, that he meant to catch the sun. Question: Why did the boy want to catch the sun? Answer: The sun seared his coat.
Context: There were six falcons living in a nest, five of whom were still too young to fly, when it so happened that both the parent birds were shot in one day. The young brood waited anxiously for their return; but night came, and they were left without parents and without food. Question: Who was the eldest falcon? Answer: Gray Eagle
Context: She went into the lodge, and asked the woodman and his wife to take her into their service. It wasn't long till she heard how a young prince, that was just arrived, was living in the palace of the young mistress. Question: What did the youngest princess offer to the woodman and his wife? Answer: diamonds, and pearls, and silk stuffs, and gold thread
Context: When he arrived home he found his wife and daughter mourning for him, for they thought that he had been eaten by lions; but he comforted them, saying that while following a wounded antelope he had missed his way and had wandered for a long time before he had found the path again. And Gopani-Kufa smiled, and took the Mirror and said to it:  'Sipao, Sipao, I want a town as great as that of Insato, the King of Pita; and I wish to be chief over it!' Question: Why were his wife and daughter mourning for him? Answer: for they thought that he had been eaten by lions
Context: 'The spell must be taken off Rhiannon and Pryderi,' said Manawyddan. The charm that has been cast over all my lands must be taken off likewise.' Question: What did Manawyddan want the bishop to do? Answer: The spell must be taken off Rhiannon and Pryderi.
Context: At first Hidesato could not help feeling alarmed at the sight of this horrible reptile lying in his path, for he must either turn back or walk right over its body. He was a brave man, however, and putting aside all fear went forward dauntlessly. Question: What were Hidesato's two choices at the sight of the horrible reptile? Answer: turn back or walk right over its body
Context: 'I will try everything that is possible,' said the wife, who did not in the least wish her husband to die, but was determined to show that he was more foolish that the other man. ' 'Well, well, I will see what can be done,' said the wife, 'but talking is not good for you. Question: What does the wife promise to make for the husband? Answer: a drink made up of dried herbs
Context: With these words he went quietly up the back stairs to the garret, where the student lived. From the book shot forth a ray of light which grew broad and full like the stem of a tree, from which bright rays spread upward and over the student's head. Question: What was the boy doing in his room? Answer: reading in the torn book
Context: The mother stork sat in it with her four little ones, who were stretching out their heads with their pointed black bills that had not yet turned red. That he might not appear quite idle while standing sentry, he had drawn one leg up under him, as is the manner of storks. Question: who sat in the nest? Answer: mother stork and four little ones
Context: But when she tried to set him down in the place where she had found him, he did not want to let her go; but clasped his arms firmly about her neck. And when she had called the third time a woman's voice replied from out of the water: "If God has forgiven him, then I, too, forgive him!" Question: Where did Torre Jeppe want the girl to go? Answer: the brook
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: Who was the princess looking for? Answer: the champion
Context: Gopani-Kufa was much astonished at all that he saw, but he said nothing. Presently they came to the town; everything here, too, was beautiful, and everything that a man might desire he could obtain. Question: Why was Gopani-Kufa astonished? Answer: Everything in the country was beatuful. It had everything that a man might desire.
Context: And it seemed to her as though she knew all the people who were there. It was quite evident that they were trolls, the people from underground, and therefore he discharged his gun over the roof. Question: What was missing among all the bridal finery? Answer: the ring on the maiden's finger
Context: The deer with long horns and the hare with long ears, it must have been an amusing sight to those who watched this queer match. In this way, sometimes the one, sometimes the other, conquering, the little party amused themselves till they were tired. Question: Who will figure out how to get across the bridge? Answer: Kintaro
Context: I will see whether I can get them back for you," said his comrade, and went down into the stable. When she came, she anointed the goat with a salve she carried in a great horn, and cried out: "Up, up! Question: Why did the princess not see the comrade? Answer: The comrade put on the Three-Sisters Hat, which made him invisible.
Context: But the comrade took the youth aside, and said that on their wedding-night he might close his eyes and pretend to sleep. The youth promised to follow his advice, and do as he had told him. When night came, and he lay in his bed, the princess raised herself on her elbows, to see if he were really asleep, and she tickled him under the nose; but he was sleeping quite soundly. Question: What did the princess look like after her troll-skin disappeared? Answer: She was lovelier than she had ever been before.
Context: In the evening, while the Princess, with her mother and sisters, was standing at the window, the Prince suddenly galloped past on his steed and threw her the golden apple. Then her mother flew into a passion, gave her a box on the ear, and cried out, 'Does not even that prince please you, you fool?' Question: What did the Princess's mother do to the crab-shell? Answer: took it up and threw it into the fire
Context: But a year later, just as the term he had set was up, he was working on a house, for during the school vacation he busied himself either with fishing or carpentering. That very moment the pastor's daughter from underground vanished; but immediately after he cut himself in the knee with the ax in such wise that he remained a cripple for life. Question: Who did the schoolmaster see when he was straddling a wall? Answer: the pastor's daughter
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: Why did the cabin-boy not want to go along? Answer: He grew restless.
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: Where did Per Gynt live? Answer: Kvam
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: What did the elder son and his wife do after they grew poorer and poorer? Answer: looking out for something to do, and never spent a penny that they could help
Context: Up and down swam the fish, then he made the most dreadful contortions, and became suddenly quite still. She took up the soldier between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the room, where everyone wanted to see the hero who had been found inside a fish; but the Tin-soldier was not at all proud. Question: What did the little boy do to the Tin-soldier? Answer: took up the Tin-soldier and threw him into the stove
Context: When he was finished, he put down his paw and, turning to the Fox, looked at him keenly; for all at once it struck him that his fur looked sleek and fine. The Fox's face fell at these words, for although he was both untruthful and dishonest now, he had been well brought up in his youth, and he knew that it was a terrible thing to perjure oneself and swear falsely. Question: How did the Fox feel when he needed to swear an oath too? Answer: nervous
Context: The sheep did not like this very well, for every once in a while the shears would pull the wool and hurt them; and when they were sheared they felt very strange, for it was almost as if someone took off all your clothes and let you run around naked. None of them were in a very good temper this morning, although the sun shone so warmly and the grass was so sweet, and as they watched the farmer and his man carry their wool up to the house in great bags, the old ram said, crossly,  "I hope they are satisfied, now that they have stolen from us all our soft, warm fleece." For men are such strange creatures that no wool grows on them at all, and that is why they selfishly rob us of our fleece that they may cover their own skinny bodies!" Question: How did the ram feel about the farmer taking his wool? Answer: angry
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: Why did the man not want to cut a rod for his wife? Answer: He did not want to cut the tree.
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: What did the little grizzled Goblin do when Earl St. Clair was about to step over the magic border? Answer: came and whispered to him
Context: 'Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wanted one?' Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find, and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it, and his sister had no home to go to. Question: Why didn't the sister have a home to go to? Answer: He went into the house and took away everything he could find, and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it.
Context: But though the knight rode very fast the ogre ran faster, and to his disappointment he found himself unable to overtake the monster, who was gradually lost to sight. Stooping to pick it up he found that it was one of the ogre's huge arms which he must have slashed off in the fight. Question: Who was the faster runner? Answer: the ogre
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: What happened after Roc was sneered by his betrothed? Answer: Roc went to his beloved friend, Aengus of the Brugh, to bemoan his fate.
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you up as well," said she, and seized the squirrel and ate him up. Question: What was the squirrel doing? Answer: gathering nuts
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Where was Murtough? Answer: in the sunny summer palace of Cletty
Context: Li Dsing was much frightened, and thought it was an apparition. When Li Dsing saw the child he took pity on him and did not slay him, while his wife began to love the boy dearly. Question: Why didn't Li Dsing slay Notscha? Answer: Li Dsing took pity on him.
Context: 'Dan,' says he, after a minute's thought, 'though it is very improper of you to get drunk on a Lady-day, yet, as you are a decent sober man, who tends mass well, and never fling stones at me or mine, nor cries out after one in the field, my life for yours,' says he; 'so get up on my back, and grip me well for fear you'd fall off, and I'll fly you out of the bog.' ' Upon the honour of a gentleman,' says he, putting his right foot on his breast, 'I am quite in earnest; and so now either take my offer or starve in the bog--besides I see that your weight is sinking the stone.' Question: Why did Daniel accept the eagle's offer? Answer: The eagle placed his right  foot on his breast.
Context: His surname meant "Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he was still very far removed from being poor. One day, without any reason whatsoever, the thought of death and sickness came to him. Question: What did Sentaro's surname mean? Answer: "Millionaire"
Context: When they grew tired of this, they told each other stories of all their exploits of which they were proud, and then played games together; and Momotaro found much to amuse him in listening to the three animals and watching their antics, and in this way he forgot that the way was long and that he was tired of the voyage and of doing nothing. He longed to be at work killing the monsters who had done so much harm in his country. Question: What did Momotaro do to amuse himself? Answer: listen to the three animals
Context: Per Gynt once more lit the fire, called his dogs and locked the herdsman's hut. At the same moment the dogs sprang upon Kjostol Aabakken, and threw him head over heels into the hearth, so that the ashes and sparks flew about. Question: What did Per Gynt see after he had covered some distance? Answer: a fire, as though the whole hut were ablaze
Context: The presents which he had received from the grateful Dragon King were found to be of magic power. The single bag of rice, however much was taken from it day after day for the meals of the knight and his whole family, never grew less-the supply in the bag was inexhaustible. Question: What did the bag of rice and roll of silk have in common? Answer: They never run out.
Context: They searched the hall, and there was no man, and the castle, and there was none. No others were bought throughout the whole of Hereford, till the saddlers banded together and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions. Question: What did the four people make after they went to England? Answer: saddles
Context: The bridegroom looked, and on one side of the road he saw a large ball of thread of all colours. All the colours, that is, of the dresses that were tied on to the back of the cart. Question: Who turned themselves into a large ball of thread? Answer: Puck
Context: It was about a year after that time there was another feast in Emain, and Conchubar and his chief men were sitting at the feast. Conchubar was in his own chariot, and there were following with him Fergus, son of Rogh, and Laegaire Buadach the Battle-Winner, and Celthair, son of Uithecar, and many others, and Bricriu of the bitter tongue was along with them. Question: How did the men of Ulster feel when the saw the birds destroying all before them? Answer: vexed
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: She was wholly occupied in this employment, without a thought of danger, when, all of a sudden, the king of the buffalos came dashing on with his herd of followers, and making sure of her by means of her drooping tresses, he placed her upon the back of one of his favorite buffalos, and away he cantered over the plains. To the king himself she paid no heed, and although he breathed forth to her every soft and gentle word he could think of, she sat still and motionless for all the world like one of the lowly bushes by the door of her father's lodge, when the summer wind has died away. Question: Where did the king of the buffalos plunge into that bounded his land? Answer: a river
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: How did the courtiers feel seeing the King's grief? Answer: amazed
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: What happened after Tom got the club in his hands? Answer: He sat down on the bresna and gave it a tap with the kippeen.
Context: "O, I am the big crooked one of Etnedal," said the monster troll. But Per Gynt knew better, for had he shot another time, the bullet would have rebounded and hit him. Question: Why did Per Gynt not shoot another time? Answer: He knew better.
Context: He sat such a while that he had to be asked if he would take some Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Just then another King's son passed by, carrying a great bag on his back. When the hare heard these kind words he felt very grateful to the man. The little animal hid nothing from his friend, but told him frankly how he had played a trick on the crocodiles and how he had come across the bridge they had made, thinking that he wished to count their number. Question: How did the hare feel towards the man when he first saw him? Answer: suspicious
Context: Late one evening he found himself in a big forest, without any idea as to where he might spend the night. But within the chest was another chest, and in that chest still another chest, and so it went, one always smaller than the other, until they were nothing but little boxes. Question: What did the duke see peeping out from among the pushes? Answer: an old hut
Context: Susan, who heard him first, said to her husband, 'Our dog must have come back, for I hear him barking lustily. But Simon answered, 'The foolish brute is as deaf as a post and is always barking at nothing,' and he refused to get up. Question: Why does Simon not bother waking up to see the dog? Answer: because he believes that the dog is as deaf as a post and is always barking at nothing
Context: That night he died, and his wife and son and daughter mourned for him seven days, and gave him a burial according to the custom of his people. 'I am going away from you,' she said to her children, in a faint voice; 'but first, my son, choose which you will have: blessing or property.' Question: How did the family feel after the father died? Answer: sad
Context: "Since you went away among the immortals, I had thought that we should
never see each other again in this life," said she. " And his wife pointed out this one and that and said: "That is so and
so, and this is so and so!" Question: Why did the old lady believe that she would never see Liu Tschen again? Answer: He went away among the immortals.
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: What did the hare want to do very much? Answer: cross over to Inaba
Context: When she reached the church, she took Torre Jeppe on her back, carried him home and sat him down on the bench beside the tailors. They had no need to tell her twice, for she took Torre Jeppe on her back, and dragged him away again. Question: What did the girl do when she reached the church? Answer: took Torre Jeppe on her back, carried him home and sat him down on the bench beside the tailors
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." If she was, however, she must have been a kind-hearted one, for by all accounts she never did anything but good in the neighbourhood. "Very well," replied Granua, after a few minutes; "I am there now." She then plaited them into three plaits, with three colours in each, putting one on her right arm, one round her heart, and the third round her right ankle, for then she knew that nothing could fail her that she undertook. Question: Why did Finn have great confidence in his wife? Answer: She had got him out of many troubles.
Context: Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good to eat; and, as for seasons, he asked for whatever fruit he wanted whenever he wanted it, and saw that he got it; so to him Moti's guess was like a miracle, and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence, for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box. Of course when the king marvelled and praised Moti's wisdom, everybody else did so too; and, whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen, Moti took the horse and entered the king's service. Question: What was Moti trying to track in the mud? Answer: hoof-marks
Context: At last, one day, he knew the persimmons must be quite ripe and he wanted very much to taste one. In his dilemma he thought of his old playmate the monkey, who, he knew, could climb trees better than any one else in the world. Question: What happened because the crab did not have legs for climbing trees? Answer: He could not reach the persimmons.
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: What did the King give his daughter? Answer: a coach with six horses and servants in gorgeous liveries and quantities of money
Context: Dschang Liang was a native of one of those states which had been destroyed by the Emperor Tsin Schi Huang. And Dschang Liang determined to do a deed for his dead king's sake, and to that end gathered followers with whom to slay Tsin Schi Huang. Question: What will happen when Dschang Liang attempts to slay Tsin Schi Huang? Answer: Dschang Liang will be forced to flee from the Emperor's rage.
Context: And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles and helper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, by mine own unaided power, cannot work the like. She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout, and she took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff-balls of the woods, and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats, and with these she fed Murtough and the hosts. Question: Who could Sheen call up to life? Answer: men fiercely fighting in conflict
Context: Quite unlike other boys, Kintaro, grew up all alone in the mountain wilds. By degrees they all grew quite tame and looked upon Kintaro as their master, and he used them as his servants and messengers. Question: How did Kintaro learn to understand and speak with animals? Answer: He made friends with all the animals.
Context: Once upon a time there was a woman who had seven hungry children, and she was baking pancakes for them. There was dough made with new milk, and it lay in the pan, and was rising so plumply and comfortably, that it was a pleasure to watch it. Question: How many children did the woman have? Answer: seven
Context: But now the time was come for Sylvia to receive her gift, and all her companions were assembled. This lovely gift makes life a constant happiness to its possessor, and to all who are brought into contact with her. Question: What happened when Sylvia was gay and joyful? Answer: The sunshine of her presence rejoiced all who had the happiness of being near her.
Context: At one time a buffalo would gain handsomely upon Aggo, and be just at the point of laying hold of him, when off Aggo would hop, a good furlong, in an oblique line, wide out of his reach; which bringing him nearly in contact with another of the herd, away he would go again, just as far off in another direction. As for the king himself, losing at last all patience at the absurd idea of chasing a man with one leg all night long, he called his herd together, and fled, in disgust, toward the west, and never more appeared in all that part of the country. Question: Why did Aggo hop about livelier than ever on his daughter's wedding-day? Answer: His daughter was marrying a very worthy young warrior.
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a Pussy-cat called Ribby, who invited a little dog called Duchess to tea. "Come in good time, my dear Duchess," said Ribby's letter, "and we will have something so very nice. Question: What is the name of the dog Answer: Duchess
Context: As they were sitting in the lodge, surrounded by the friends and relatives, the mother of the Red Head regarded the face of her new daughter-in-law for a long time with fixed attention. She still urged her doubts, which so vexed the husband that he broke his pipe-stem in her face, and called her an owl. Question: Why was the mother of the Red Head fixated on her new daughter-in-law? Answer: The figure and manners, the countenance, and more especially the eyes, were beyond a doubt those of a man.
Context: The church was full of lights, as was always the case when the Christmas mass was said. As she sat down it seemed to her that some one said: "If I had not stood godfather to you when you were christened, I would do away with you as you sit there, and now hurry and make yourself scarce, or it will be the worse for you!" Question: How did the woman feel when she realized things were not as they should be? Answer: surprised
Context: So they rested there that night, and in the morning Conchubar was the first to rise up. And she bade Conchubar welcome, and she told him all that had happened her, and that she had called him there to bring herself and the child back to Emain Macha. Question: What will happen if the child is given to Blai's care? Answer: The child will not suffer from want of care or from forgetfulness.
Context: This wise and good Emperor did not rest till he had secured peace and prosperity throughout his whole land. The Empress and the courtiers were so frightened that they ran away screaming. Question: How long did Kotei reign for? Answer: about a hundred years
Context: When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supper herself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another, for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time. Question: What happened after the girl lent her pot to her neighbor? Answer: Next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another.
Context: You can imagine the feelings of the poor crab after waiting patiently, for so long as he had done, for the tree to grow and the fruit to ripen, when he saw the monkey devouring all the good persimmons. Again and again, as fast as he could pick them, the monkey pulled off the hard persimmons and threw them at the defenseless crab till he dropped dead, covered with wounds all over his body. Question: Why did the monkey throw persimmons at the crab? Answer: He was annoyed with the crab.
Context: "I'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that's under your bed," says he. "I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," says he, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges with that stroke. Question: Why did the gentleman say the son was the best lad that he ever met? Answer: The son got rid of the giant.
Context: And so it was that a week later Little Miss Muffet went to the country, or rather to a small town where there was a summer hotel that had been highly recommended to Nurse Holloweg; and with her went the string of maids and a wagon-load of boxes and trunks. "Well," replied Nurse Holloweg, "Sarah can take you out for half an hour. Question: What went with Little Miss Muffet into the country? Answer: the string of maids and a wagon-load of boxes and trunks
Context: The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and that the dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge. Question: How did the old man feel finding all the coins? Answer: excited
Context: Even the cross old neighbor could not refuse such a simple request, so he consented to give the old man the tree under which Shiro lay buried. In this his wife put some rice, and he began to pound it with the intention of making a festival to the memory of his dog Shiro. Question: What did the old man make from the trunk of the tree? Answer: a mortar
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: What did Morraha see coming towards him? Answer: a currach, short and green
Context: The emperor was much pleased and showed them to the wise man. The pearls of the black dragon are nine-colored and glow by night. Some one asked how the serpent and sea-crane pearls could be told apart, and the wise man answered: "The animals themselves recognize them." Then a large yellow serpent and a black crane were fetched and placed among the pearls. Question: Why did people acknowledge the truth of the wise man's words? Answer: snatched at the serpent-pearl, and wound himself about it in many coils
Context: O do not do that," said the rat, "you shall have the ring again!" When the folk at the castle had gone to bed, the rat crept around, and sniffed and spied out the room of the prince and princess; and at last he found a little hole through which he crawled. Question: How was the rat able to get into the rooms of the prince and princess? Answer: found a little hole through which he crawled
Context: When she reached the church, she took Torre Jeppe on her back, carried him home and sat him down on the bench beside the tailors. They had no need to tell her twice, for she took Torre Jeppe on her back, and dragged him away again. Question: What did the tailors beg the girl to do? Answer: deliver them from the specter
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: What happened after the currach was in on the shore? Answer: Morraha drew her up on the green grass, and put fastening on her for a day and a year, whether he should be there all that time, or should only be on land for an hour by the clock.
Context: The proposal pleased the two others, and forthwith they started on their travels. Soon they came to a little brook, and as there was no stepping-stone, and no bridge, they could not tell how they were to get to the other side. When, however, she reached the middle, and heard the water rushing past beneath her, she was struck with terror, and stopped, and could get no farther. Question: How did the coal feel when she reached the middle of the bridge? Answer: terrified
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: What did the monks do to the blessed body? Answer: buried his blessed body
Context: The invited guests were already thronging round the table, when the head cook entered the room, bearing a beautiful wedding cake on a silver dish, and laid it before Prince Milan. Without pausing for a moment, Milan and Hyacinthia mounted him and galloped as fast as they could into the country of King Kojata. Question: Why were the guests lost in admiration? Answer: The cake was quite a work of art.
Context: THEN old Mrs. Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella, to the baker's. FLOPSY, Mopsy, and Cottontail, who were good little bunnies, went down the lane to gather blackberries;  BUT Peter, who was very naughty, ran straight away to Mr. McGregor's garden and squeezed under the gate! Question: Which one of the four bunnies run straight to Mr. McGregor's garden? Answer: Peter
Context: "This is really beautiful," said a young girl, who had come into the garden with a young man. And we can't have such a fellow as this in the summer time," replied the young man, pointing to the Snow Man; "he is capital." Question: Why did the Snow Man ask the yard-dog about the two people in the garden? Answer: the yard-dog had been there longer than the Snow Man
Context: For a while the brother was eager to learn, and keenly attended to his duties as the provider of the lodge; but at length he grew weary of their tranquil life, and began to have a desire to show himself among men. Bokwewa objected; but his brother overruled all that he said, and in spite of every remonstrance, he departed on his travels. Question: Why did Kwasynd want to leave Bokwewa? Answer: wanted to visit the habitations of men
Context: At midnight of the seventh day, as Sentaro knelt in the temple, the door of the innermost shrine flew open. A hermit must cut himself off from the world so that his heart may become as pure as gold and free from every earthly desire. Question: Why was it hard to be a hermit? Answer: Hermits were only allowed to eat fruit and berries and the bark of pine trees.
Context: Once upon a time there were three brothers who had lost their parents, and since the latter had left their sons nothing upon which to live, they had to wander out into the world, and seek their fortune. The two older brothers prepared for the journey as well as they were able; but the youngest, whom they called "Mike by the Stove," because he was always sitting behind the stove whittling, they did not want to take with them. Question: Why did the older brothers not want to take Mike by the Stove? Answer: He was always sitting behind the stove whittling.
Context: Hurry home at once to arrange your affairs and save what you can!" All that he possessed in the way of treasures, clothes and jewels, he removed from the house. Question: What will happened after the man hears about the fire at his house? Answer: face his horses about and drive home as fast as he can
Context: "Yes, it was I," answered the man: "I have an earnest request to make to you. "If it is in my power to do so I will," answered Hidesato, "but first tell me who you are?" "I want you to kill my mortal enemy the centipede, who lives on the mountain beyond," and the Dragon King pointed to a high peak on the opposite shore of the lake. Question: Who will be the cause of the shaking? Answer: the centipede
Context: But the Fairy Queen suddenly tightened her rein, and the grey palfrey stopped short in its wild career. For he saw three roads leading across it now, which he had not noticed before, and each of these three roads was different. Question: What did Thomas see after he looked once more over the desert? Answer: three roads
Context: Now the king thought he had taken every precaution to protect his daughter, and went off to war. They told her to arrange matters in such wise that the king's daughter and her maid might come into disrepute, without their having anything to do with it. Question: How did the men who would have liked to have talked to the beautiful maiden feel towards the king? Answer: hatred
Context: So he made one excuse after another, but the Wolf, who was getting more and more suspicious every moment, would not listen to him. So, as he had not courage to tell the truth, he was forced at last to swear an oath also, and this was what he swore:      "If it be that I stole the butter; if it be, if it be--     Then let some most deadly punishment fall on me, fall on me--     Whirrum wheeckam, whirrum wheeckam,     Whirram whee, whirram whee!" Question: What will happen after the Fox swears the oath? Answer: The Wolf will believe him.
Context: So she did not dare to refuse any longer, and brought out as much money as he could possibly carry in his knapsack. Now no sooner had he gone than the devil came home, and when he learned that Murmur had taken along a big bag of money. Question: How did Murmur keep the devil from coming to close quarters? Answer: stretched out the club behind him
Context: Once upon a time there lived a monk at Puto who was exceedingly learned. The monk turned the pages of the books, and found that they were all works of ancient times, such as he had never seen before. Question: Where did the monk live? Answer: Puto
Context: Now that Aduan had returned again Rose of Evening could not control her joy. And even Aduan's old mother cherished the hope that, after all, perhaps her son had not died. Question: Why did Aduan's mother dig up her son's grave? Answer: Aduan's old mother cherished the hope that, after all, perhaps her son had not died.
Context: When the fifth day of the eight had passed, it was plain to her that there was a child in the egg, which kept on calling: "Herring and mush, porridge and milk," and so she punched a hole in the egg. It was quite disgustingly homely, with a big head and a small body. Question: What did the child look like? Answer: big head and a small body
Context: The Fox was asked to another christening; this time at a place some twenty-five miles along the shore. And when the Wolf asked him the name of the child, he answered that it was a more extraordinary name than the other--"Be na Inheadnon" (Be in its middle). Question: What did the Wolf ask the Fox when he came home? Answer: the name of the child
Context: In the Sea of Dungting there is a hill, and in that hill there is a hole, and this hole is so deep that it has no bottom. Once a fisherman was passing there who slipped and fell into the hole. Question: Why wasn't the fisherman able to get into the castle? Answer: The hornless dragon would not let him in.
Context: They hoped that his shining qualities would draw back the thoughts of Leelinau from that spirit-land whither she seemed to have wholly directed her affections. It was this chief's son whom Iagoo had pictured as the corn-taker, but, without objecting to his age, or giving any other reason, Leelinau firmly declined his proposals. Question: What did Leelinau's parents ascribe Leelinau's hesitancy as? Answer: maiden fear
Context: "That's all very well, but we are not through yet," said the boy, "there is worse to come," and he told them to reef every last rag, as well as what had been left of the topsails. The last squall hit them with far more force than either of the preceding ones, the ship laid over on her side so that they thought she would not right herself again, and the breaker swept over the deck. Question: Why was the crew frightened at the second squall? Answer: The second squall was so vicious and violent.
Context: There was once a little boy whose name was Lars, and because he was so little he was called Little Lasse; he was a brave little man, for he sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat. Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rose high above his cap, and he picked seventeen large shells, the longest and straightest he could find. Question: Who saw Lars pick seventeen large shells? Answer: the gardener
Context: This time the giant was so nimble in his movements that he had nearly reached home before the Shell, make the best speed he could, could overtake him; but he was just in time to clip another beaver's tail before the sled slipped into the lodge. What vexed him most, was, that he could not get a sight of his enemy. Question: Why was the giant vexed? Answer: could not get a sight of his enemy
Context: So the sea-sucker came, and lay down and took two or three swallows, and thus lowered the water so that the giant could see the king's son and the Master Girl out on the ship. " But no sooner were they thus far than the Master Girl told the king's son to pour a drop or so of the bottle overboard, and the sea grew so full that they had landed before the sea-sucker could so much as take a single swallow. Question: What did the Master Girl and king's son do before the sea-sucker could take a single swallow? Answer: landed
Context: Watanabe's eyes grew large with wonder, for he saw that the ogre was taller than the great gate, his eyes were flashing like mirrors in the sunlight, and his huge mouth was wide open, and as the monster breathed, flames of fire shot out of his mouth. But Watanabe, determined not to let the monster escape, put spurs to his horse and gave chase. Question: Why was Watanabe determined to not let the monster escape? Answer: He wanted to kill the ogre.
Context: Once upon a time there lived two peasants on a homestead called Vaderas, just as there are two peasants living on it now. In those days the roads were good, and the women were in the habit of riding when they wanted to go to church. Question: Who lived on a homestead called Vaderas? Answer: two peasants
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: What happened because the man and his wife lamented that they had no child? Answer: Heaven had compassion on them.
Context: The old woman now ran into the little room and brought out from the cupboard the big peach. When the old man looked at the peach he was greatly astonished and said:  "This is indeed the largest peach I have ever seen! Question: How was the peach different from before? Answer: It felt even heavier than before.
Context: All else that he learned in the abodes of the dead, and his travels and acts previous to his return homeward, are unknown, for he never spoke of them to any human being. Passing all the other lodges he came to his own door, where he found the magic arrow, as he had been promised. Question: What happened after the brothers repented their wrong? Answer: The silent kettle straightway served them up so hearty and wholesome a meal.
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. Question: Where did the two servants take Prince Milan to? Answer: a beautiful apartment
Context: Silverwhite went though the city and inquired as to the cause of all the unhappiness he saw. This news pleased Silverwhite, for he saw a fine opportunity to wealth and fame, should fortune favor him. Question: What will Silverwhite do next? Answer: save the eldest princess
Context: "I wish I had some wool," said the boy, "for I need a new coat very badly, and mamma is so poor she cannot buy me one." "That is too bad," replied the Black Sheep; "but I shall have more wool by and by, and then I will give you a bagful to make a new coat from." Question: Why did the little boy not have a coat? Answer: His mamma was so poor.
Context: Now when the comrade had gone, the youth hid all his treasure, and went straight home. After five years the comrade came again and asked for his share. Question: What did the youth and princess do the whole winter? Answer: went back and forth with the goats and his father's twelve horses, bringing all the gold and silver home
Context: The feast over, he was next invited to the tea-ceremony room to drink a cup of tea. When the young crab had conducted the monkey to the tearoom he left him and retired. Question: Why did the monkey run out of the room? Answer: He was taken by surprise.
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: What was the cabin-boy able to do with his second sight? Answer: see those who are invisible, but they could not see him
Context: The moon shone down upon the grave, but the dead was not there; every child could go safely, even at night, and pluck a rose from the tree by the churchyard wall. The earth has been heaped on the coffin, and it is earth only that lies within it. Question: Why don't the dead return? Answer: they don't want to scare us
Context: Presently they trod upon their pinafores and fell on their noses. "Let us climb up the rockery, and sit on the garden wall," said Moppet. Question: Where did Moppet say they should sit on? Answer: the garden wall
Context: "Well, whether you be crooked or straight, you will have to let me pass," said Per Gynt. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: How did Per Gynt feel when he ran into the crooked one again? Answer: annoyed
Context: At last the venerable dormouse himself undertook it, for the very good reason that no one else would. That is the reason why it is now one of the tiniest creatures upon the earth. In this business he was very expert, and he had a new bird-skin coat made, which was prettier than the one he had worn before. Question: Why did the dormouse undertake the task? Answer: was the largest animal in the world
Context: Changed, but the same, with ghastly looks and arms that were withered, she appeared to her sons as they returned from the hunt, in the twilight, in the close of the day. Oftenest it was her bare brow, white, and bony, and bodyless, that they saw floating in the air, and making a mock of them in the wild paths of the forest, or in the midnight darkness of the lodge. Question: How did the woman appear to her sons as they returned from the hunt? Answer: ghostly
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: What did Tom bade no one to do? Answer: touch the fiail
Context: When he stood before the door at home, he turned around; and there lay many, many hundred yards of the finest linen, finer than the most skillful weaver could have spun. And when she saw the linen, stretching as far as she could see, and then a bit, she could not believe her eyes, until the youth told her how it all happened. Question: Why was the mother so pleased with the linen? Answer: She could use it to make clothes.
Context: WHEN they had finished tea, they tied up the clothes in bundles; and Lucie's pocket-handkerchiefs were folded up inside her clean pinny, and fastened with a silver safety-pin. All the way down the path little animals came out of the fern to meet them; the very first that they met were Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny! Question: What were the first two animals that they met own the path? Answer: Peter Rabbit and Benjamin Bunny
Context: It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill, for Walter got a seat on the load, while Caro ran barking beside them. Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with all his might while they were going through the wood. Question: What did Walter do after they came into the wood? Answer: looked cautiously around him to see perchance there was a wolf in the bushes
Context: Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" But as they were amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deep growl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after that one yet more savage; but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus Mac Roy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "It is Setanta." Question: What did Culain bade one of his apprentices to do? Answer: go out and let loose the great mastiff that guarded the house
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived not very far from John of Groat's house, which, as everyone knows, is in the very north of Scotland. He lived in a little cottage by the sea-shore, and made his living by catching seals and selling their fur, which is very valuable. Question: How did the man make his living? Answer: catching seals and selling their fur
Context: After a short time, the woman heard the cry of the dog, and running home as fast as she could, she found her child gone, and the dog too. The mother hurried off at full speed in pursuit, and as she flew along, she came, from time to time, to lodges inhabited by old women, who told her at what time the child-thief had passed; they also gave her shoes that she might follow on. Question: Where did the dog come from? Answer: a distant country
Context: In a moment the Princess Hyacinthia had changed herself, the Prince, and his charger into a thick wood where a thousand paths and roads crossed each other. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: What happens to the Magician when Hyacinthia and the Prince arrived at the first church? Answer: His power ceases.
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: What did Jack my Hedgehog do on the tree? Answer: played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them
Context: And the falcons
settled down on him, and the dogs crawled along his body. They then gathered beside him in a great throng, and
conversed with him in a strange tongue. Question: What did the horsemen give to the king? Answer: all the birds and game
Context: "I never imagined anything like this when I was only a little blue flower growing in the fields," said the paper. " I suppose now I shall be sent out to journey about the world, so that people may read me. Question: Why is the paper so happy? Answer: because splendid thoughts are written on it
Context: There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow. When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was no wife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become of their mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men and women, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in the middle of them, going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep. Question: Where did the little farmer and his wife live? Answer: near Coolgarrow
Context: But when he had wept for some time he told himself that this crying would do no good; it was his duty to avenge his father's murder, and this he determined to do. The young crab knew that monkeys liked persimmons above all other fruit, and he felt sure that his greed for the coveted fruit had been the cause of the old crab's death. Question: What was the crab's son determined to do? Answer: avenge his father's death
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: Why did Redhead touch the flail? Answer: to make an end of Tom
Context: Time went on, and the hungry spring came, and the Fox and the Wolf had their larder bare, for food was scarce, and the weather was bleak and cold. The Fox agreed--having made up his mind how he would act--and the two set out to the place where the Keg had been hidden. Question: What happened after spring came? Answer: The Fox and the Wolf had their larder bare, for food was scarce, and the weather was bleak and cold.
Context: Towards morning, a thick fog covered the whole country round, and a keen wind arose, so that the cold seemed to freeze one's bones. While the snowy carpet of the earth appeared as if covered with diamonds, from which countless lights gleamed, whiter than even the snow itself. Question: What did the snowy carpet of the earth appear to be covered with? Answer: diamonds
Context: The old woman then gave him the wooden pestle and told him to do the work for a short time while she rested. He then killed her and cut her up and made soup of her, and waited for the return of the old farmer. Question: How will the old man feel when he returns home? Answer: angry
Context: So Grethel gave Hans a young goat; then he said,  "Good-bye, Grethel," and she said, "Good-bye, Hans." You should have tied a cord round its neck, and led it home." Question: What will Hans mother say when he tells her where he put the goat? Answer: that was very stupid
Context: So he was feeling very happy, and as he walked along he was humming a
tune to himself. His road took him by the foot of Merlin's Crag, and as
he approached it he was astonished to find himself growing strangely
tired. Question: What will happen after the poor man wakes up? Answer: A large band of Fairies who were dancing round and round him, singing and laughing, pointing their tiny fingers at him, and shaking their wee fists in his face.
Context: She was stingier, and only offered fifty dollars; but she had to raise her bid until she reached three hundred. When she had the whistle in her hands, she tied it fast, and hid it well, but she fared not a whit better than either of the others. Question: What happened when the queen only offered fifty dollars? Answer: She had to raise her bid until she reached three hundred.
Context: She at length became so engrossed by the fairy pines that her parents began to suspect that some evil spirit had enticed her to its haunts, and had cast upon her a charm which she had not the power to resist. she concluded, turning with passionate gaze to the beautiful young pines which stood waving their green beauty over her head, "shed on me, on Leelinau the sad, thy leafy fragrance, such as spring unfolds from sweetest flowers, or hearts that to each other show their inmost grief. Question: Who secretly followed Leelinau? Answer: her mother
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who wanted to go to sell a pig. Go to the devil," said the man, "he will be the first to rid you of it." Question: Where did the peasant keep on? Answer: the broad highway
Context: When heaven gave her a second child, a guard of twice as many men as had first stood watch was again set about her. Yet everything happened as before, only that this time the foster-mother said to her: "Now you shall grieve as I did when you let the moon slip out!" The queen wept and pleaded-for when the foster-mother was there she could speak-but without avail. Question: How did the queen feel when the foster-mother took her child? Answer: devastated
Context: Now the duke had to explain everything to the princess, and beg her to leave him, since it would be best if he tried to get along as well as he could himself, said he. She had a better memory for what the pastor had said when he married them, she told him, and that she was never, never to leave him. Question: What did the duke beg the princess to do? Answer: begged her to leave him
Context: 'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp--'it's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. ' Well, when the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the King. The goose flew round every individual acre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, bein' let into the secret by Saint Kavin, who was mighty cute. Question: How will the king feel about the goose being dead? Answer: sad
Context: He traveled on till he came to a small wigwam, and on looking into it he discovered a very old woman sitting alone by the fire. After she had thus spoken, she gave him the following directions for his journey:  "When you come near to the village which you seek, you will see in the center a large lodge, in which the chief of the village, who has two daughters, resides. Question: What happened to the man's elder brothers? Answer: have been destroyed
Context: He has wings that reach from the clouds to the earth; he will smite you before you have time to beg for mercy." " Question: Why won't the buckwheat bow down? Answer: it's too proud
Context: Little Miss Muffet's father was a big banker in a big city, and he had so much money that the house he lived in was almost as beautiful as a king's palace. She had a maid to dress her hair and a maid to bathe her, a maid to serve her at table and a maid to tie her shoestrings, and several maids beside. Question: Why was Miss Muffet a personage of great importance? Answer: She was an only child.
Context: In a city in the neighborhood of Kaiutschou there once lived a constable by the name of Dung. One day when he returned from a hunt after thieves the twilight had already begun to fall. Question: Where did Dung live? Answer: in a city in the neighborhood of Kaiutschou
Context: It is just the reverse of you," said the dog; "it's as black as a crow, and has a long neck and a brass knob. asked the Snow Man, for it seemed to him that the stove must be of the female sex. " I had bitten the youngest of my master's sons in the leg, because he kicked away the bone I was gnawing. ' Question: Why did the yard-dog give up such a comfortable place? Answer: he had to
Context: It was the spring, and just the time of year when the dwarfs held their fete, so one day the brownie asked Jegu if he might bring his friends to have supper in the great barn, and whether he would allow them to dance there. Of course, Jegu was only too pleased to be able to do anything for the brownie, and he ordered Barbaik to spread her best table-cloths in the barn, and to make a quantity of little loaves and pancakes, and, besides, to keep all the milk given by the cows that morning. Question: What did the brownie ask of Jegu? Answer: If he might bring his friends to have supper in the great barn and dance there.
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. "By my troth, but he rideth in haste, whoever he may be," said Earl Gregory at last, "and though I always thought that no steed on earth could match mine for swiftness, I reckon that for every league that mine goeth, his would go seven. It will be an evil day for thee when thou seekest to do that." Question: How will Earl St. Clair feel after Sir Gregory does not see the same thing as him? Answer: startled
Context: The thieves, finding the body gone, realize that yet another person must know their secret, and set out to track him down. One of the thieves goes down to the town and comes across Baba Mustafa, who mentions that he has just sewn a dead man's body back together. Again Morgiana foils the plan by making similar chips in all the other doorsteps. When their leader comes to rouse his men, he discovers that they are dead, and escapes. Question: How does Morgiana help Ali Baba? Answer: foils the thieves' plan
Context: Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed to tremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant. It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquer Midna. Question: What happened after they heard voices? Answer: A strange figure entered the chamber.
Context: And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should be well cared for. "Oh, on my honour, it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island; and I will keep him, as he is trained. No matter what guard was placed over them, the child would be gone in the morning. The Queen was now carrying the twelfth child, and when she was lying-in, the King took me with him to watch the baby. Question: Who were the eight young lads and three young women? Answer: the king's eleven missing children
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. A sorceress, that had a beautiful daughter, wished me for her son-in-law; but the mother got power over me, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.' Question: What did the very beautiful prince do after the youngest princess woke up? Answer: was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: What did Tom make the giant do? Answer: dance home, with himself sitting on it
Context: Three brothers were left destitute, by the death of their parents, at an early age. The eldest became expert in the craft of the forest, and he was very successful in procuring food. Question: Why did the eldest instruct his brothers? Answer: so that each should become a master over a particular animal which was assigned to him
Context: But before he started he gave her a comb, and told her that whenever she used it, pearls and diamonds would fall from her hair. She wrung her hands and shed tears, but then she recollected herself, and cried out, 'Wood, I charge you by my three magic gifts, the scissors, the comb, and the reel--to let me through'; and it opened, and she went along a walk till she came in sight of a palace, and a lawn, and a woodman's cottage on the edge of the wood where it came nearest the palace. Question: What did the youngest princess need to do to help her husband remember her again? Answer: put her half-ring to his
Context: Uraschimataro was still so puzzled with the adventures that had befallen him, that he waited in a dazed condition for what would happen next. But the turtle, who had talked so much of him to the princess that she had expressed a wish to see him, went at once to make known his arrival. He heard the children shouting and calling, and from a window that he passed came the twang of the koto, and everything seemed to cry a welcome for his return. Shuddering with horror at his discovery he turned back into the village street, hoping to meet some one who could tell him of the days of old. Question: Why did three hundred years pass by when Uraschimataro came back to his home? Answer: He did not grow old when he lived in the palace of Ringu.
Context: In the first days of her illness the father and daughter thought that it was only a cold, and were not particularly anxious. But the days went by and still the mother did not get better. The father and daughter were stricken with grief, and day or night the girl never left her mother's side. Question: Why were the father and daughter not particularly anxious at first? Answer: thought that it was only a cold
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: Why was the prince sent on a journey by his father? Answer: to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong
Context: So the Duckling went off and swam on the water and dived into it; but he was looked down upon by all the creatures because of his ugliness. Question: Why was the duckling looked down upon by all the creatures? Answer: He was looked down upon by all the creatures because of his ugliness.
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: How did the brother know his sister got married to a prince? Answer: He overheard a man talking about her.
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: How did everyone feel after Thomas disappeared? Answer: confused
Context: Strange to say, as soon as she began to repeat this little song the peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman was standing, till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she was able to take it up in her hands. She could not go on with her work, so happy and excited was she, so she put all the clothes back in her bamboo basket, and with the basket on her back and the peach in her hand she hurried homewards. Question: What did the woman stop doing because she got the peach? Answer: her work
Context: But though the knight rode very fast the ogre ran faster, and to his disappointment he found himself unable to overtake the monster, who was gradually lost to sight. Stooping to pick it up he found that it was one of the ogre's huge arms which he must have slashed off in the fight. Question: What did Watanabe find by the gate? Answer: the ogre's arm
Context: He pushed it in front of him with his paws, like a brewer's man trundling a barrel. But his mouth was full of soot and cob-webs, and he was tied up in such very tight knots, he could not make anybody hear him. Question: Why was Tom Kitten mewing for help? Answer: His mouth was full of soot and cob-webts, and he was tied up in such very tight knots, he could not make anybody hear him.
Context: I took a bar of iron, and put it in the fire till it was red, and I said to the hag, "He will be howling at first, but will fall asleep presently, and do not wake him until he has slept as much as he wants. As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." I told him all I went through, and I gave him the child in his hand, and: "These are your other children who were stolen from you, whom I am giving to you safe. I spent a time till my visit was over, and I told the King all the troubles I went through, only I said nothing about my wife. Question: Why was the king crying? Answer: for good cause
Context: After what he had seen, the goblin could no longer sit and listen quietly to the wisdom and understanding downstairs. As soon as the evening light glimmered in the garret, he took courage, for it seemed to him that the rays of light were strong cables, drawing him up and obliging him to go and peep through the keyhole. Question: How did the goblin feel when looking at the student's light room? Answer: amazed
Context: A few hours later the farmer was aroused by the cries and groans of his wife. 'Well, perhaps you are right,' answered the farmer, 'but the sooner that fellow has his deserts, the better I shall be pleased,' and without more words he went to the stables and brought out a horse for himself and also the black Andalusian mare ridden by the rich man, while the poor brother, fearing more ill-treatment, started at once on foot. Question: What did the younger brother suggest to the farmer? Answer: accuse his brother at Evora
Context: That day the maiden again sat beneath the windows of the castle, and wound her golden reel. And that evening when the princess came to him with his night-cap, the prince pretended to drink it. Then, when the maiden came in, the prince was awake, and she had to tell him just how she had found the castle. Question: What did the prince do when he found out about the weeping and wailing woman? Answer: pretended to drink the night-cap
Context: The Emperor ordered Jofuku to set out for the land of Horaizan, to find the hermits, and to bring him back a phial of the magic elixir. But ever since that time Mount Fuji has been said to be the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermits who had the secret of the elixir. Question: Why did Sentaro go to the shrine of Jofuku? Answer: Jofuku was said to be the hermit's patron god.
Context: Once upon a time there was a king who had three sons, who were all so clever and brave that he began to be afraid that they would want to reign over the kingdom before he was dead. Now, as I think of retiring into the country, it seems to me that a pretty, lively, faithful little dog would be very good company for me; so, without any regard for your ages, I promise that the one who brings me the most beautiful little dog shall succeed me at once." Question: Why did the king want a pretty, lively, faithful little dog? Answer: He thought the best way to live in peace would be to divert the minds of his sons with promises.
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: What was the poor man forbidden to do? Answer: speak about the certain practices that the Fairies did
Context: And the King of the Polar Bears had courage to bear his pain and lived and was strong again. Mostly they were pure white in color, but some from the gray gulls gave his majesty a slight mottled appearance. Question: Why did the King of the Polar Bears only leave his icy cavern to fish or catch seals for food? Answer: It was still strange for him to have his feathery covering.
Context: When the guardian's servant heard how large a sum it was, he was tempted to win so wealthy a man for a son-in-law, and he married him to his daughter. I said to you: 'If you will follow me into the West, the land of Blessed Repose, I will pay you your wages in yellow gold. Then the guardian of the pass cast himself to earth and pleaded for him. Question: What will the guardian do when he sees the servant collapse? Answer: cast himself to earth and pleaded for him
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: How did the younger brother feel after he got married? Answer: unhappy
Context: Full of surprise the woman jumped up and pulled the bar away from the door. 'No, no, you shan't do that,' cried the king, 'or if you do, it will be your own fault. Question: What did the couple need to do for the king to be happy? Answer: obey his orders exactly
Context: When he came to court they at once took him on as a herdsman. As long as Peter was on the common or in the enclosure, he kept his hares together nicely, but later, when they reached the forest, they ran away from him across the hills. Question: How did Peter feel running after the hares? Answer: tired
Context: At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, took heart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife? Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees. Question: What did the prince do after he saw the two tombs? Answer: burst into tears
Context: nan Question: Where did the second husband go after his wife said he was not her husband? Answer: in the wood
Context: It was summer time, the corn was yellow, the oats green, the hay was stacked down in the green meadows, and there the stork walked about on his long red legs and talked Egyptian. Round the fields and meadows there were large woods and within them deep lakes: indeed, it was pleasant out in the country. Question: Why was the mother duck tired? Answer: She had got to hatch out her little Ducklings.
Context: He passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of the ships. "How cool I feel," said the boy, "I must be getting better"; and he sank into a delicious slumber. Question: Why did the Swallow feel warm even though it is quite cold? Answer: He had done a good action.
Context: It chanced, one dark December night, that there was a dreadful storm at sea, and in the morning the beach was all strewn with wreckage. So as soon as it was daylight the two friends went down to the shore to see if they could find anything to eat. Question: Why did the Fox and the Wolf have the good fortune to light on a great Keg of Butter? Answer: It had been washed overboard from some ship.
Context: 'You have told me what I wanted to know,' cried the Fairy, 'but alas! Accordingly the butterflies whisked her off, and set her down in quite a strange kingdom. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' Question: Why did Sylvia want to return to the Fairy after visiting Daphne? Answer: Princess Daphne talked too much.
Context: "Now, I have suffered enough for the red shoes," she said; "I will go to church, so that people can see me." And so she went boldly on; but she had not got farther than the churchyard gate when she saw the red shoes dancing along before her. Question: How did Karen feel during the whole week? Answer: sad
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: Why did the couple hope for a child? Answer: gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead
Context: The hue of her hair was like the flower of the iris in summer or like red gold after the burnishing thereof. And after a space Murtough perceived her sitting there, and the sun shining upon her, so that the glittering of the gold and of her golden hair and the bright shining of the green silk of her garments, was like the yellow iris-beds upon the lake on a sunny summer's day. Question: How did Sheen know Murtough? Answer: She was the beloved of Murtough.
Context: Even the cross old neighbor could not refuse such a simple request, so he consented to give the old man the tree under which Shiro lay buried. In this his wife put some rice, and he began to pound it with the intention of making a festival to the memory of his dog Shiro. Question: What happened when the wife put rice into the mortar and pounded it? Answer: It began to increase in quantity gradually till it was about five times the original amount.
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " The King, that was too far off to hear what they were saying, asked what did the stranger want. " He wants," says the red-headed fellow, "to make hares of your best men." " says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." So one stood forward, with sword and pot-lid, and made a cut at Tom. The princess was not well pleased, for Tom looked a different person with fine clothes and a nice green birredh over his long, curly hair; and besides, he'd got one laugh out of her. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " Question: How will Redhead feel when he sees Tom succeed in every challenge? Answer: jealous
Context: That day the maiden again sat beneath the windows of the castle, and wound her golden reel. And that evening when the princess came to him with his night-cap, the prince pretended to drink it. Then, when the maiden came in, the prince was awake, and she had to tell him just how she had found the castle. Question: Why did the princess sneak the sleeping-powder into the prince's cup? Answer: She did not want to maiden to speak with him.
Context: Soon after, the goblin was waked in the middle of the night by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors and by the sound of the watchman's horn. The huckster's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket, that she might save something at least. Question: How did the student feel looking at the fire? Answer: calm
Context: Maidwa's pack for traveling was now ready, and he was taking his farewell smoke, when the young magician thus addressed him: "My friend Maidwa, you know for what cause you came thus far, and why you have risked so much and waited so long. He then spoke in a language which Maidwa did not understand, the curtain of the lodge parted, and the Red Swan met his gaze. She is worthy of you, and what you have done for me merits more. Question: How will Maidwa feel towards the Red Swan? Answer: awe
Context: Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy, and had the smith make an iron ax of five hundred-weights. He chopped down big pine and fir trees, as thick as masts, and all that he found on the king's ground, as well as what he found on that of his neighbors. Question: What type of axe did Murmur Goose-Egg ask for? Answer: iron ax of five hundred-weights
Context: The magician began to feel uneasy, for he found that he had been outwitted. He then uttered the charm to his canoe, and it shot out of sight, leaving Owasso to make his peace the best way he could. Meanwhile, it appears that the old magician had fallen asleep and allowed his canoe to come to a stand-still. Question: Why does Owasso not tell his wife that her father tried to get rid of him? Answer: did not want to upset her
Context: She then gave little spirit his dish, and he commenced eating. One of the brothers presented his face at this little window, and rolled his eye about at the boy-man in a very threatening way. When spring came on, and the lake began to sparkle in the morning sun, the boy-man said to his sister:  "Make me a new set of arrows, and a bow." The boy-man laughed in himself, but said nothing, till the fish was fairly caught, when he took hold of the line and began to pull himself in his fish-carriage ashore. The sister, who was watching all this time, opened wide her eyes as the huge fish came up and up upon the shore. Yet she was not altogether satisfied in her mind that he was greater than the rest of the world. Question: What made the sister believe her brother was an extraordinary boy? Answer: He could kill four men.
Context: When he awoke it was near midnight, and the moon had risen on the Crag. At last they stopped, and, with shrieks of elfin laughter, led the prettiest and daintiest of their companions up to him, and cried, "Tread a measure, tread a measure, Oh, Man! Question: How did the poor man feel when he saw the Fairies? Answer: bewildered
Context: cried Earl St. Clair eagerly, "ere he taketh on him the Elfin shape? "There is something that thou couldst do, Sir Earl," whispered the Goblin, "but to essay it were a desperate attempt. Question: Why couldn't Earl St. Clair utter a word while his feet were on the enchanted ground? Answer: If he uttered a word, he would fall through the bog and die.
Context: In the twilight there came a boy, who sat down on the edge of Aduan's bed and chatted with him. The other boy said, with a smile: "Well, because Rose of Evening is in the same case as yourself." Question: What happened to Rose of Evening after she met Aduan? Answer: She was also sick.
Context: yes,' said the miller, 'last night the wolves have eaten our fattest ram there by the kiln not far from here.' But, you see, Jonas, it might happen that one of them might bite me in the back, and I should have more trouble in killing them. Question: Why did Walter decide for Jonas to come with him? Answer: There could be many wolves.
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: What did the man with twelve eyes do to the ram? Answer: caught the ram by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: Where did the Prince hide? Answer: behind the bushes
Context: And then he dangled his legs, since for the time being there was nothing else for him to do. It had been a long, hard day for him, and he was not sorry when he saw the sun sinking behind the forest. Question: Who did the duke see a-top the last cart coming along the road? Answer: a little old man in gray
Context: In the evening, while the Princess, with her mother and sisters, was standing at the window, the Prince suddenly galloped past on his steed and threw her the golden apple. Then her mother flew into a passion, gave her a box on the ear, and cried out, 'Does not even that prince please you, you fool?' Question: How did the Princess feel after her mother threw the crab-shell in the fire? Answer: sad
Context: His surname meant "Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he was still very far removed from being poor. He built all the large palaces, and also the famous great wall of China. When Shin-no-Shiko went to bed at night, when he rose in the morning, as he went through his day, the thought of death was always with him. Question: Why did Sentaro think of people who had lived a long time? Answer: He also wanted to live a long time.
Context: And now again as he wound about in his course, and faced the north once more, he beheld, coming toward him, an immense number of men, women, and children, pressing forward in the direction of the shining land. In this vast throng Bokwewa beheld persons of every age, from the little infant, the sweet and lovely penaisee, or younger son, to the feeble, gray old man, stooping under the burden of his years. Question: What was offered to Bokwewa? Answer: a kettle
Context: At that she began to cry again, and told the king's son all that had befallen her since the death of her mother. Very soon the slave returned with the litter, which was placed on the ground close to the bushes where the girl lay. Question: What did the prince tell his slave to do? Answer: go quickly into the town, and bring back with him four strong men and a curtained litter
Context: While he was doing this he saw a scholar coming towards him, whose clothes were tattered. Now it was seven years since Manawyddan had seen man or beast in that place, and the sight amazed him. Question: Who did Manawyddan see coming towards him? Answer: a scholar
Context: But what were deadly poisons in other lands were without effect in this strange place. This was because after using it for a hundred years, it was supposed to turn the hair slightly gray and to bring about disorders of the stomach. Question: What happened when people swallowed the poisons? Answer: They felt better in health instead of worse.
Context: The spring, with all its blossoms and its delicate newness of life, came among them; the Indians assembled to celebrate their vernal feast from all the country round. The village was stirred to its very heart by their loud lamentings; and, after a struggle of pity, they decided to give the young man's life to the parents. Question: Why did the village have a struggle of pity? Answer: They did not believe Netawis killed Wassamo.
Context: 'Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: What will the Prince see when he wakes up the next day? Answer: The palace will be finished.
Context: The hours slid by, and all was still, so still that Manawyddan well-nigh dropped asleep. He could no more come up with them than if they had been gnats, or birds of the air, save one only which lingered behind the rest, and this mouse Manawyddan came up with. Question: What did Manawyddan see at midnight? Answer: a mighty host of mice
Context: 'I will go into the castle and get tidings of the dogs,' said Pryderi at last. 'Truly,' answered Manawyddan, 'thou wouldst do unwisely, for whosoever has cast a spell over this land has set this castle here.' Question: What did Pryderi want to do after the dogs and boars went into the castle? Answer: go into the castle and get tidings of the dogs
Context: By this act the marriage ceremony was completed, and Owasso and the magician's daughter were man and wife. But no sooner was Owasso in the family than the old Manito wished him out of the way. Question: Where did the Manito and Owasso reach? Answer: a solitary bay in an island
Context: My father wished me to marry again; but I had promised to remain true to the memory of my husband, and made a vow not to comply with my father's wish. So I have plucked up courage to beg you to lend me your mercenaries so that I may beat off my foes and remain as I am. Question: What happened when the mistress fought on the meadow before the city? Answer: They were defeated.
Context: And, to the young man's horror, as soon as their lips had met, an awful change came over her. She saw the poor man's astonishment and terror, and she burst into a mocking laugh. Question: What did Thomas need to do after he kissed the Queen of Fairies? Answer: become her servant and go with her to Fairy-Land
Context: Lucinda sat upon the upset kitchen stove and stared, and Jane leaned against the kitchen dresser and smiled; but neither of them made any remark. THE bookcase and the bird-cage were rescued from under the coal-box; but Hunca Munca has got the cradle and some of Lucinda's clothes. Question: What did Hunca Munca have? Answer: the cradle and some of Lucinda's clothes and some useful pots and pans
Context: Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed. I am now obliged, whether I like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, and marry her daughter. Question: Why didn't the youngest princess drink the sweet drink that her husband gave her? Answer: She wanted to use it on her husband.
Context: The boy from the tree had no more than time to escape, when the hunter entered, and found his son, sitting as usual, near the fire. My son," he said, "you must be very foolish when alone to play so. He, however, engaged his son to entice the boy to a dead tree, by the edge of a wood, where they could kill many flying-squirrels by setting it on fire. Question: Why did the hunter tell his son to entice the beautiful boy to a dead tree? Answer: So that the hunter could see who his son was playing with.
Context: And the tree looked at all the splendour and freshness of the flowers in the garden, and then looked at itself, and wished that it had been left lying in the dark corner of the lumber-room; it thought of its fresh youth in the wood, of the merry Christmas Eve, and of the little mice who had listened so happily to the story of Humpty Dumpty. And a servant came and cut the tree into small pieces, there was quite a bundle of them; they flickered brightly under the great copper in the brew-house; the tree sighed deeply, and each sigh was like a pistol-shot; so the children who were playing there ran up, and sat in front of the fire, gazing at it, and crying, 'Piff! Question: Why did the tree want to be brought out again? Answer: It wanted to hear more stories.
Context: The girl asked, sobbing: 'Is there no means of setting them free?' So she searched for a high tree, and when she had found one she climbed up it and spun all day long, never laughing or speaking one word. Question: What did the sister must do in order to free her brothers? Answer: be dumb and not laugh for seven years
Context: Once, when the wicked Emperor Tsin Schi Huang had conquered all the other kingdoms, and was traveling through the entire empire, he came to the homeland of Confucius. All his officials advised him not to do so, but he would not listen to them. Question: What did Emperor Tsin Schi Huang's advisors' do when he wanted to open the grave? Answer: advised him not to do so
Context: There was a trembling in the poor creature's hand, and he was not able to cut a piece at all off the bull, after his feeding him for so long, and after the kindness he had got from him. "I'm as good a herd as ever you saw, but I'll not tell you a lie--I can do nothing but herding; but, indeed, I'll do that as well as any man that ever you saw." Question: Where was the lad going? Answer: He did not himself know where he was going, but that he was going looking for work.
Context: In fact, although it was such a small shop it sold nearly everything--except a few things that you want in a hurry--like bootlaces, hair-pins and mutton chops. Question: Who was a yellow tom-cat? Answer: Ginger
Context: From that day forward the princess gave her father no peace, and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady. Finally, one day, when she again brought up the matter, the king cried: "I can see you will end by having your own way about this, even though it be entirely against my will. Question: What did the princess beg her father to do? Answer: to marry the good court lady
Context: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man was determined to sell him to the butcher. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he said to himself:  "Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Question: Why did the monkey think going to the wild boar would help him? Answer: He had often heard of tell of his wisdom.
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: What did Kintoki do because he fell in love with a beautiful lady? Answer: married her
Context: But before he started he gave her a comb, and told her that whenever she used it, pearls and diamonds would fall from her hair. She wrung her hands and shed tears, but then she recollected herself, and cried out, 'Wood, I charge you by my three magic gifts, the scissors, the comb, and the reel--to let me through'; and it opened, and she went along a walk till she came in sight of a palace, and a lawn, and a woodman's cottage on the edge of the wood where it came nearest the palace. Question: What will happen after the husband enters the woods? Answer: He will forget everything that ever happened between them.
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: What made the cook agree to Hyacinthia's request? Answer: Everyone was busy.
Context: The invited guests were already thronging round the table, when the head cook entered the room, bearing a beautiful wedding cake on a silver dish, and laid it before Prince Milan. Without pausing for a moment, Milan and Hyacinthia mounted him and galloped as fast as they could into the country of King Kojata. Question: Why did the cake remind the Prince of Hyacinthia? Answer: He heard what the dove said.
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. Question: What happened after the Prince approached the throne still on his knees? Answer: The Magician laughed aloud.
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: Who were the chiefs and mighty men with? Answer: the King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter
Context: They set out, and arriving at a good ground for their sport, they spent the day in hunting. He slyly reached down a pair of moccasins and leggings with a stick, and thinking they were no other than those of Owasso's, he dropped them into the flames. Question: Why did Owasso think that the magician was going to play a trick on him? Answer: The magician gave him a glance.
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: Why did the Prince come out of the bulrushes? Answer: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature.
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: How will the boys feel when Setanta attacks them? Answer: scared
Context: He did not sleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow. The mother ran out from the kitchen to the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch. Question: What was the woman's husband doing when the child was stolen? Answer: sleeping soundly
Context: While they were in difficulties, there was a pit pat paddle pat! and the three Puddle-Ducks came along the hard high road, marching one behind the other and doing the goose step-pit pat paddle pat! Question: What did the two duck-birds do after picking up the hat and tucker? Answer: put them on
Context: Long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded, and he was astonished to behold a man; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather. He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: Who did the boy see long before the speech ended? Answer: a man
Context: The two poor damsels, daughters of Daimios, and others whom the wicked demon had carried off to be his slaves, were taken safely to their own homes and delivered to their parents. The whole country made a hero of Momotaro on his triumphant return, and rejoiced that the country was now freed from the robber devils who had been a terror of the land for a long time. Question: How did the whole country feel about Momotaro? Answer: admiration
Context: "You have won your desire of the Great Spirit," said the beautiful stranger. " Your father will give you food to strengthen you, and as it is the last day of trial you will prevail. Question: What will Wunzh do as soon as he prevails the stranger? Answer: strip off the stranger's garments and throw him down
Context: Meanwhile he had a word of advice for his son-in-law Wassamo. " My son," said he, "some of these Manitoes that I have asked to come here are of a very wicked temper, and I warn you especially of that Island Spirit who wished to marry my daughter. Question: What will happen if Wassamo does not sit close by his wife? Answer: He will be lost.
Context: "For although your brothers," he said, "were here, they were too bashful to enter any of our lodges. whereupon the old chief, being now vexed past patience, took his great war-club and tapped this clownish fellow upon the head, which so far subdued him that he sat for some time quite still; when, after a while, he came to himself, the chief upbraided him for his folly, and told him to go out and tell stories to the old women. Question: What will the pretender do after being subdued? Answer: go out and tell stories to the old women
Context: My trousseau is not quite complete, but by the time you come again all shall be ready." But it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten, and he said that he had no appetite. " Question: What did the rat give the youth to return home? Answer: woolen thread
Context: Before many days had passed he reached the Southern Island, and then slowly but surely made his way to the head-quarters of the chiefs Kumaso and Takeru. Though the Prince was but a youth he had the wisdom of years, and, seeing that it was vain to try and lead his men further, he said to himself:  "To attempt to fight a battle in this impassable country unknown to my men only makes my task harder. Question: What happened because Yamato's men cannot clear the roads and fight as well? Answer: He would use strategy.
Context: The sun had not yet risen when Pinkel returned to the palace, and, entering the king's chamber, he held up the lantern so that its rays might fall upon the bed. And calling for his attendants he ordered that rooms next his own should be prepared for Pinkel, and that the youth might enter his presence at any hour. Question: What happened because Pinkel returned with the golden lantern? Answer: rooms next the king's own were prepared for Pinkel and he was to have a seat on the council
Context: Now there came on a dreadful storm, and the flowers of the field folded their leaves or bent their heads as it passed over them. Even human beings dare not do that, for in the midst of the lightning one may look straight into God's heaven. Then the willow told them of the buckwheat's stubborn pride and of the punishment which followed. Question: Why didn't the buckwheat do what it was told? Answer: it was too proud
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Why could Tom gather sticks without giants or fairy men coming to disturb him? Answer: There were no more giants.
Context: When this had been kept up for the customary time, the enchanted dog was completely sweated away, and in his stead, as might have been expected, out came a very handsome young man, but, unhappily, without the power of speech. When the deputation reached the lodge, they were surprised to find, in the place of the dog, a fine young man; and on announcing their message, they all returned to the old chief, who was no less surprised at the change. Question: Who thrusted himself in among the relations of the old chief? Answer: the sixth giant
Context: "Buz," said the fly; "there, I'm not going to make a long speech; but I wish to say something about hares. I have really overtaken more than one hare, when I have been seated on the engine in front of a railway train. Question: Who did the fly conquer? Answer: a young hare
Context: Very sorrowful was Manawyddan, but Pryderi was stout of heart, and bade him be of good cheer. Let us go now to seek Rhiannon, and the lands where she dwells.' Question: Why were Manawyddan the prince and his friend Pryderi wanderers? Answer: The brother of Manawyddan had been slain, and his throne taken from him.
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. In great haste the old man sprang from his bed, and covered the flower with the cloth the old witch had given him, and in a moment the beautiful Princess Hyacinthia stood before him. The busy cook was just going to refuse her demand and order her out of the kitchen, but the words died on his lips when he turned and beheld the beautiful Hyacinthia, and he answered politely, 'You have just come in the nick of time, fair maiden. Then he jumped up suddenly from the table and ran to the door, where he found the beautiful Hyacinthia waiting for him. Question: Why did Hyacinthia want to make the wedding cake? Answer: She wanted to deliver a message to the Prince.
Context: We come from the other land to test mankind, and to try the sincerity of the living. Often we have heard the bereaved by death say that if the lost could be restored, they would devote their lives to make them happy. Question: Who were the two strange guests? Answer: the hunter's dead sisters
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: What made Per Gynt feel uneasy? Answer: The dogs began to bark so violently.
Context: The Queen of Heaven, who is also known as the Holy Mother, was in
mortal life a maiden of Fukien, named Lin. She shows her
power on the seas and for this reason the seamen worship her. Question: Who was also known as the Holy Mother? Answer: The Queen of Heaven
Context: There was once a king, called King O'Toole, who was a fine old king in the old ancient times, long ago. Well, the King (you see) was the right sort--he was the real boy, and loved sport as he loved his life, and huntin' in particular. Question: Who owned the Churches in the early days? Answer: King O'Toole
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. A sorceress, that had a beautiful daughter, wished me for her son-in-law; but the mother got power over me, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.' Question: What happened after the prince proposed to the youngest princess? Answer: They got married.
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: What happened after Fionn heard Roc's story? Answer: Fionn repented himself of the indignity put upon the giant, and released the giant from his bonds.
Context: The guests all grew pale with terror when they heard the news. Then she gave me two chargers, a suit of golden armor, and the insignia of a commander-in-chief, and bowed to me. Question: What happened to Tschauna after the general sent out his soldiers? Answer: He fell into the general's ambush.
Context: A prize, or rather two prizes, a great one and a small one, had been awarded for the greatest swiftness in running,--not in a single race, but for the whole year. " The snail certainly took half a year to get over the threshold of the door; but he injured himself, and broke his collar-bone by the haste he made. Question: Why does the fence-rail believe the hare deserved second prize? Answer: because he worked hard
Context: Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy, and had the smith make an iron ax of five hundred-weights. He chopped down big pine and fir trees, as thick as masts, and all that he found on the king's ground, as well as what he found on that of his neighbors. Question: How did the king feel when he saw Murmur Goose Egg's destruction in the forest? Answer: frightened
Context: "I should like to live," he said to himself, "till I am five or six hundred years old at least, free from all sickness. There was a Princess of Yamato, who, it was said, lived to the age of five hundred. Question: Why did Sentaro decide to live simply and frugally? Answer: prolong his life as long as he wished
Context: The hare humbled himself before this great fairy Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto, whom many in that part of the land worshiped as a god. I am quite sure that the Princess, whom your brothers have gone to seek, will refuse to be the bride of any of them. Question: Why did the hare think the Princess would not marry any of the brothers? Answer: They were unkind.
Context: When he came to the Yellow River on his journey, he did what the Lord of the Great Mountain had told him, and cried: "Greencoat!" And sure enough, a girl in green garments rose from the water, took him by the hand and told him to close his eyes. Question: What did the river-god give Hu-Wu-Bau as a gift? Answer: green silk shoes
Context: The Toad did not hear any more, nor did she understand half of what she had heard. The two friends walked on, and thus she escaped the fate of being bottled up in spirits. Question: What was happening on the roof of the farm house? Answer: Father-Stork was making a speech to his family.
Context: Then the girl went back again to the well, not knowing what to do, and in the despair of her heart she jumped down into the well the same way the spindle had gone. And she walked on through the meadow until she came to a baker's oven that was full of bread; and the bread called out to her,  "Oh, take me out, take me out, or I shall burn; I am baked enough already!" Question: When the girl came to herself, where was she? Answer: in a beautiful meadow
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Why did the wolf keep his eyes on Tom? Answer: to see if Tom would give him leave to eat him
Context: The next day the Magician again commanded Prince Milan to be led before him. 'Now, you genius,' said the Magician, 'look at these beauties three times, and then tell us which is the Princess Hyacinthia.' Question: What did the Prince have to do before the candle burned to the socket? Answer: made the Magician a pair of boots reaching to his knees
Context: The wily horse-dealer thought that he saw a chance of driving a good bargain. The gold that the stranger gave him was not the gold that was in use at the time, but was fashioned into Unicorns, and Bonnet-pieces, and other ancient coins. Question: Why did Canobie Dick took the stranger's coins? Answer: It was good, pure gold.
Context: "Now you can go to the devil, and fetch the tribute from him," said the king. But since he was there, he would stay there, for he had to take home the tribute, and he had plenty of time to wait. Question: How did Murmur feel after he had eaten all his provisions? Answer: weary
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a very beautiful doll's house; it was red brick with white windows, and it had real muslin curtains and a front door and a chimney. Jane was the Cook; but she never did any cooking, because the dinner had been bought ready-made, in a box full of shavings. Question: Why did Jane the Cook never do any cooking? Answer: because the dinner had been bought read-made, in a box full of shaving
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived not very far from John of Groat's house, which, as everyone knows, is in the very north of Scotland. He lived in a little cottage by the sea-shore, and made his living by catching seals and selling their fur, which is very valuable. Question: Why was it not difficult to creep up behind the seals? Answer: These creatures used to come out of the sea in large numbers, and lie on the rocks near his house basking in the sunshine.
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: What did Cormac build for pleasure? Answer: a pleasure house on the brink of the slow-flowing Boyne, near the Fairy Brugh of Angus the Ever Young, the God of Youth and Beauty
Context: The Prince saw his brothers walking upon the terrace, each with a lovely princess, and they came to meet him, asking if he had also found a wife. At which they laughed very much, and asked him if he was afraid of being eaten up by mice in the palace. Question: Why did the princes make fun of the White Cat? Answer: He did not bring back a princess.
Context: 'When thy wife came home,' answered the farmer, 'she saw the pack-saddle over her head. He went off to the kitchen to get some supper, leaving them to cry as long as they liked. Question: How was the young man different from the old farmer and his wife? Answer: He did not care that his wife almost got hurt.
Context: Maidwa thought it strange that he should be so warmly received, and married instantly against his own wishes, although he could not help noticing that the chief's daughter was pretty. He wakened early, and finding the chief's daughter looking forth at the door, he spoke to her, but she gave no answer. Question: Why did it displease Maidwa when the daughter took some time before she reached for the moccasins? Answer: He wanted to leave.
Context: The invited guests were already thronging round the table, when the head cook entered the room, bearing a beautiful wedding cake on a silver dish, and laid it before Prince Milan. Without pausing for a moment, Milan and Hyacinthia mounted him and galloped as fast as they could into the country of King Kojata. Question: How did the King and Queen feel when they saw the Prince and Hyacinthia? Answer: joy
Context: Early in the morning a labourer came that way, saw him, went on the ice and with his wooden shoe broke it up and carried the Duckling home to his wife, and there he was brought to life again. The children wanted to play with him, but he thought they meant to hurt him, and in his fright he dashed right into the milk-pan and made the milk splash out into the room. Question: What did the labourer do to bring the duck back to life? Answer: broke up the ice with his wooden shoe and carried the Duckling home to his wife
Context: In due time, what with good nursing, and good feeding, and good air, Gray Eagle recovered from his wound, and he repaid the kindness of his brothers by giving them such advice and instruction in the art of hunting as his age and experience qualified him to impart. As spring advanced, they began to look about for the means of replenishing their store-house, whose supplies were running low; and they were all quite successful in their quest except the youngest, whose name was Peepi, or the Pigeon-Hawk, and who had of late begun to set up for himself. Question: How will Gray Eagle feel towards his brothers taking care of him? Answer: thankful
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: What did Earl St. Clair see, while he searched for Earl Gregory? Answer: the charmed Ring and the eldrich dancers
Context: It was not worth much, but it was very well played, and all the characters turned their painted sides to the audience, for they were made only to be seen on one side. The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much. Question: Why did the characters only turn one side to the audience? Answer: they were only painted on one side
Context: At the time of the seven empires there lived a man by the name of Si-Men Bau, who was a governor on the Yellow River. The sorcerers and witches who dwelt there said: "Every year the river-god looks for a bride, who must be selected from among the people. Question: What did the river-god do every year? Answer: looked for a bride
Context: They had cried night and day for sorrow at having no child to help them in their lonely old age, and now that their prayer was answered they were so lost with joy that they did not know where to put their hands or their feet. First the old man took the child up in his arms, and then the old woman did the same; and they named him MOMOTARO, OR SON OF A PEACH, because he had come out of a peach. Question: Why did the couple name the boy 'Momotaro'? Answer: He had come out of a peach.
Context: Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. Question: What type of animal was the monkey by nature? Answer: cunning
Context: As soon as Duchess had got round the corner out of sight--she simply ran! Ribby went into the shop and bought what she required, and came out, after a pleasant gossip with Cousin Tabitha Twitchit. Question: How did Cousin Tabithan feel after the conversation? Answer: disdainful
Context: "That's all very well, but we are not through yet," said the boy, "there is worse to come," and he told them to reef every last rag, as well as what had been left of the topsails. The last squall hit them with far more force than either of the preceding ones, the ship laid over on her side so that they thought she would not right herself again, and the breaker swept over the deck. Question: What will be the worst squall? Answer: the last one
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Why did Setanta travel quickly? Answer: lest he should be met by any of his father's people
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: Why did the King send out one of his servants after hearing the music? Answer: to find out where it came from
Context: There was once a king in Ireland, and he had three daughters, and very nice princesses they were. And one day, when they and their father were walking on the lawn, the king began to joke with them, and to ask them whom they would like to be married to. ' Question: Why did the youngest princess want to marry the Brown Bear of Norway? Answer: A nurse of hers used to be telling her of an enchanted prince that she called by that name, and she fell in love with him, and his name was the first name on her tongue.
Context: Her own daughter, who was as ugly as sin, and had only one eye, complained to her, and said,  "I never had the chance of being a Queen." After a while the Queen brought a beautiful baby-boy into the world, and that day the King was out hunting. Question: Why did the old witch take the shape of a bedchamber woman? Answer: so she could sneak into the castle
Context: Another evening, when they were all so happy, and the prince dandling the baby, a beautiful greyhound stood before them, took the child out of the father's hand, and was out of the door before you could wink. The princess opened her eyes in a great fright and stared at her, and while she was doing so, the lady wrapped a shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father's lap, and either sank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney. Question: How did the youngest princess feel when she saw the lady standing by them? Answer: scared
Context: When he arrived in the neighbourhood everything seemed strange. Worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles. Question: What did Farquar do when he approached the old man? Answer: asked him if he could tell him where his friends had gone to, and what had happened to his father's dwelling
Context: If you had only held out until the end of the year, I would have been delivered. I have a step-mother who has cast a spell on me, so that by day I am a bear, and at night a human being. She was not afraid, no matter how hard the journey might be. " Question: Why was the maiden not afraid? Answer: She wanted to save her prince.
Context: 'Oh, we will take care of her,' cried the girls gaily, and they ran off to the woods. And they all began to sing and to jump one after another across the fire. Question: What did Snowflake and the young girls do in the woods? Answer: wore wreaths, gathered nosegays, and sang songs
Context: I mean what our pavers call a maiden, a thing with which they ram down the paving-stones in the roads. At the top she is narrow, and has a stick passed across through her waist, and this stick forms the arms of the maiden. Question: where did the two maidens stand? Answer: in the shed
Context: Her elder sisters were all sought in marriage, and one after the other they went off to dwell in the lodges of their husbands; but Oweenee was deaf to all proposals of the kind. Though thus poor and homely, Osseo was a devout and good man; faithful in all his duties, and obedient in all things to the Good Spirit. Question: Who did Oweenee marry? Answer: Osseo
Context: As soon as Sentaro got down from the bird's back, the crane folded up of its own accord and flew into his pocket. Everything was, of course, quite strange, and different from his own land. Question: Who helped Sentaro arrange everything that was necessary? Answer: the proprietor
Context: Years flew by, and every morning Uraschimataro sailed his boat into the deep sea. But one day as he was making for a little bay between some rocks, there arose a fierce whirlwind, which shattered his boat to pieces, and she was sucked under by the waves. Question: What did the turtle do when Uraschimataro struggled hard to reach the shore? Answer: paid his debt and showed his gratitude
Context: He was lying in the road beating his wings, and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved. " I have not much food, nor are you likely to be able to help me much," said the king's son, "but still I can give you a little, for it is easy to see you need it." Question: What will the wolf ask from the king's son? Answer: help
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " So the fellows gathered round Tom, and the bad man aggravated him till he told them he didn't care a pinch of snuff for the whole bilin' of 'em. says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." Question: Why didn't the king know if he should be glad or sorry? Answer: Someone finally made the princess laugh.
Context: The little fasting-lodge had been removed, and the weeds kept from growing on the circle where it had stood. In its place rose a tall and graceful plant, surmounted with nodding plumes and stately leaves, and golden clusters. Question: How will Wunzh feel seeing his wish fulfilled? Answer: happy
Context: One day he stepped forth from his tent and after walking about for a short time he came to a pond. The trees growing along the edge of the water were shedding their leaves, which floated hither and thither on the surface of the pond. Question: What will Kotei do because he learned from the spider? Answer: build something to get to the other side of the river.
Context: Then she shook the tree until the apples fell like rain, and she shook until there were no more to fall; and when she had gathered them together in a heap, she went on farther. You must take great pains to make my bed well, and shake it up thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about, and then in the world it snows, for I am Mother Hulda." Question: How did the girl feel when she saw the old woman's teeth? Answer: terrified
Context: So he went along another half mile, but further than that he could not go. Then the youth asked him what he wished in the way of payment for his company and aid. " Question: What was promised to the comrade? Answer: half of all that the youth may gain in the course of the next five years
Context: It had been her custom to pass many of her hours in her favorite place of retirement, under a broad-topped young pine, whose leaves whispered in every wind that blew; but most of all in that gentle murmur of the air at the evening hour, dear to lovers, when the twilight steals on. Fly from men who are false and cruel, and quit the tumult of their dusty strife, for this quiet, lonely shade. Question: Why will Leelinau love the spirit as a lover? Answer: spent a lot of time with it
Context: One spring day Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Unluckily he had a hasty temper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Together they took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town. Question: How did the king feel after he heard the brother's accusations? Answer: mad
Context: But the Wolf had seen the Fox beginning to grow greasy, and he knew now what had happened, and he determined to have his revenge. Then, keeping at a safe distance, he said to his companion, "There is writing on that smithy door, which I cannot read, as my eyes are failing; do thou try to read it, for perchance it may be something it were good for us to know." Question: What happened after the Wolf suggested for them to go on a walk? Answer: The Wolf had seen the Fox beginning to grow greasy.
Context: Ah, if only the little lady were sitting beside me in the boat, it might be twice as dark for all I should care!' Suddenly there came along a great water-rat that lived in the tunnel. Question: What did the great water-rat do when he saw the Tin-soldier? Answer: asked for the Tin-soldier's passport
Context: Yamato Take now bade farewell to his aunt, and once more placing himself at the head of his men he marched to the farthest East through the province of Owari, and then he reached the province of Suruga. The Prince was utterly deceived by the cordiality of his host, which was all feigned, and gladly consented to join in the hunt. Question: Who welcomed the Prince? Answer: the governor
Context: One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passing along the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleating loudly. So he went up to where it was standing, and as it seemed so tired that it could hardly walk, he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued on his way. Question: What did William do after he talked to the voice? Answer: ran towards home as fast as his legs would carry him
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: How did the old man feel when he saw the young man? Answer: happy
Context: On the third day when she once more went to the wood, everything happened exactly as on the first and second day. And now kiss me," said the snake, "but if you are afraid, put your apron between us." Question: Who did the snake turn into? Answer: a marvelously handsome youth
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: How did the King of Dublin's daughter feel? Answer: melancholy
Context: Now once, at the time of the hay harvest, he was home at Baekkjen, and had lain down to take a little after-dinner nap under the penthouse. And he was taken into the hill, which happened in the following way: A man with a pair of gilded goat's horns came along and butted Ola, but Ola fell upon him so that the man had to duck back, again and again. Question: Who came along and butted Ola? Answer: a man with a pair of golden gilded goat's horns
Context: Yamato Take now bade farewell to his aunt, and once more placing himself at the head of his men he marched to the farthest East through the province of Owari, and then he reached the province of Suruga. The Prince was utterly deceived by the cordiality of his host, which was all feigned, and gladly consented to join in the hunt. Question: What will the governor try to do on the deer hunt? Answer: attack the Prince
Context: When the mourners saw a man coming towards them with nothing on but his nightshirt, they forgot in their fright what they were there for, and fled to hide themselves. Question: Who came out of the wood and spoke to the third husband? Answer: a man
Context: Undoubtedly he had given every giant in Ireland a considerable beating, barring Finn M'Coul himself. Finn, however, had a strong disinclination to meet a giant who could make a young earthquake or flatten a thunderbolt when he was angry. Question: How will Oonagh feel when Finn comes home? Answer: happy
Context: At first he was only a servant, who carried the king the water for his bath, and saw that his bed was made in a particular fashion. But he did his duties so well that his master soon took notice of him, and in a short time he rose to be a gentleman of the bedchamber. Question: What did the younger brother do with his inherited money? Answer: spent all the money he had inherited,
Context: ONCE upon a time there were five women who were standing in a field, mowing. And suddenly they saw a goose-egg of quite unheard-of size, well-nigh as large as a man's head. " Question: What were the five women doing? Answer: standing in a field, mowing
Context: Sentaro had often heard the tale of the Chinese King named Shin-no-Shiko. Ah-if only he could find the "Elixir of Life," he would be happy. Question: What did Shin-no-Shiko build? Answer: the large palaces
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: How did the girl feel after she was allowed to marry the prince? Answer: happy
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. But the queen laughed at her grief, and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished. Question: What did the princess find out because the king was compelled to go to war? Answer: She found out the kind of step-mother she had.
Context: They began to make shields, and fashioned them after the shape of the shields they had seen. We will buy the leather ready dressed, and will make the shoes from it.' Question: Why did Manawyddan want to make shoes? Answer: There were not any among the shoemakers bold enough to fight them.
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. Question: Why were Finn and his gigantic relatives at the Giant's Causeway? Answer: to make a bridge
Context: The first time he came to earth he was the Yellow Lord, who taught mankind all sorts of arts. At the beginning of the reign of the Han dynasty, he again appeared as the Old Man of the River, (Ho Schang Gung). Question: What will the Yellow Ancient do when he is born again? Answer: He will write the book of "Meaning and Life" and spread his teachings through the world.
Context: 'Dan,' says he, after a minute's thought, 'though it is very improper of you to get drunk on a Lady-day, yet, as you are a decent sober man, who tends mass well, and never fling stones at me or mine, nor cries out after one in the field, my life for yours,' says he; 'so get up on my back, and grip me well for fear you'd fall off, and I'll fly you out of the bog.' ' Upon the honour of a gentleman,' says he, putting his right foot on his breast, 'I am quite in earnest; and so now either take my offer or starve in the bog--besides I see that your weight is sinking the stone.' Question: How did the eagle swear to not make game out of Daniel? Answer: put his right foot on his breast
Context: For three days they flew straight as an arrow, until they came to scattered houses, to villages, and to cities. The king's great battle was upon the seventh day, and they must fly swiftly to reach the Polar regions by that time. Question: What did the gulls do when the King of the Polar Bear commanded them to retrieve his hide? Answer: seized the skin in their beaks and they flew quickly away
Context: The goddess said: "For hundreds of years my family has been living in the depth of the Eastern Sea. And not long ago, our enemy Pi-Lo himself wanted to deliver an imperial letter in the cave of the Sea of Dungting. Question: Why was the mistress left alone and returned to the home of her parents? Answer: Her husband's fiery temper caused him to offend against the laws of courtesy.
Context: It seemed a very long time to her to wait till her husband returned. He seemed very tired and used the scythe for a walking stick, leaning on it as he walked along. Question: How did the woman feel waiting for her husband to return? Answer: impatient
Context: The next morning the giant got up early, and went into the forest. Then she adorned the wardrobe with flowers and wreaths, and toward evening the king's youngest son again crawled under the bed. How silly you are," said the giant, "you could never reach the place where I keep my heart." " Question: Why did the giant not want to tell the princess where his heart was kept? Answer: She could never reach the place where he kept his heart.
Context: So the Prince Toyonari and his wife went to the temple of Kwannon at Hase and stayed there for a long time, both daily offering incense and praying to Kwannon, the Heavenly Mother, to grant them the desire of their whole lives. A daughter was born at last to the Princess Murasaki, and great was the joy of her heart. Question: How did Prince Toyonari and his wife feel when they had a daughter? Answer: happy
Context: In the Sea of Dungting there is a hill, and in that hill there is a hole, and this hole is so deep that it has no bottom. Once a fisherman was passing there who slipped and fell into the hole. Question: Why was the fisherman at the dragon-castle? Answer: He slipped and fell into the hole.
Context: "You can stand on the runner of my sledge," said the man, "for I have a horse that covers a mile in twelve steps." He could not tell exactly where it was, but when they began to hurry on again, he thought that he spied a skull on a pole. Question: What did John spy when they began to hurry on? Answer: a skull on a pole
Context: Lisa ate, Aina ate, and in a little while their baskets were full. They had never been so far in the great wood before, they could not find any road nor path, and soon the girls noticed that they had lost their way. Question: Why didn't Aina and Lisa go home immediately? Answer: Lisa wanted to pick more raspberries.
Context: "Try and know them again," said the man, "for the fifty young girls are in this house, and this woman beside me is their mistress, Dechtire. I saw the man of the house, tall and open-handed and shining." " Question: Why did Bricriu decide not to tell Conchubar that he found the missing girls? Answer: He wanted to get money out of Conchubar.
Context: "I'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that's under your bed," says he. "I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," says he, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges with that stroke. Question: What will the son experience when he uses the sword? Answer: He won't feel it in his hand going through them.
Context: He left his boy to take care of the lodge while he was absent, hunting and roaming about from place to place, striving to forget his misfortune, and searching for the wicked Weendigo. He shot another, which was lost in the same way; and returning to the lodge to replenish his quiver, he happened to espy one of the lucky arrows, which the first Weendigo had given to his father, hanging upon the side of the lodge. Question: Why was the boy puzzled? Answer: He had shot his shafts entirely out of sight.
Context: Once upon a time when wishes came true there was a king's son who was enchanted by an old witch, so that he was obliged to sit in a large iron stove in a wood. He said, 'You must come again, and bring a knife with you to scrape a hole in the iron.' Question: Who had to live in a large iron stove in a wood for many years? Answer: the prince
Context: Fourteen long years went by, and people were beginning to forget that Thomas the Rhymer had ever been in Fairy-land; but at last a day came when Scotland was at war with England, and the Scottish army was resting by the banks of the Tweed, not far from the Tower of Ercildoune. And the Master of the Tower determined to make a feast, and invite all the Nobles and Barons who were leading the army to sup with him. Question: What did Thomas do after the meal ended? Answer: took his Elfin Harp and sang to his assembled guests song after song of the days of long ago
Context: So, after adding to this much more good advice, and telling him what kind of herbs would cure his wounds, Gray Eagle dismissed White Owl, and the four brothers and sisters sat down to supper. There was great rejoicing over their return, and now that they were all happily re-united, each one soon chose a mate and began to keep house in the woods for himself. Question: How did the househood feel when the two nest-mates returned? Answer: happy
Context: You have long been their victim, but you shall be their victim no more. Ascend, my son; ascend into the skies, and partake of the feast I have prepared for you in the stars, and bring with you those you love. Question: What did the voice say females would no longer be doomed to do? Answer: laborious tasks
Context: Then straightway he sought the town for the best leather, and for a goldsmith to fashion the clasps. He himself watched till it was done, so that he might learn for himself. Question: What did Manawyddan seek the town for? Answer: the best leather, and for a goldsmith
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: How did Allen burn Tara? Answer: He standeth over against the city and shoots balls of fire out of his mouth against it, till it is consumed.
Context: On entering the cottage, he found another old man, who was so thin and withered and bent that he looked as if he must at least be a hundred years old. "Can you tell me anything of my friends, or where my father's cottage is?" Question: Who was so thin and withered and bent that he looked as if he must at least be a hundred years old? Answer: another old man
Context: Then the farmer realized that it was a fox, who was preparing the elixir of life. He hid in the grass and waited until the ball of fire came down again, at about the height of his own head. Question: Who was preparing the elixir of life? Answer: a fox
Context: While sleeping, the sun beat so hot upon him that it not only singed his bird-skin coat, but it so shrivelled and shrunk and tightened it upon the little boy's body, as to wake him up. On coming home he gave an account of his misfortune to his sister, and bitterly bewailed the spoiling of his new coat. Question: How will the boy feel when the sun seared its fiery beams on the coat the boy was so proud of? Answer: angry
Context: The magician groaned again and again, and said, rather peevishly, "No, these are not the dreams." Early the next morning Maidwa set out to fulfill his promise; and in the afternoon, when the sun hangs toward home, he heard the shouts of a great many people. Question: What did the magician have to do when he heard the hawk? Answer: prepare his head and lean it out through the door
Context: When the man opened the door, everything within was so beautiful that Isaac could not get over his admiration. Their father must have quieted them, for they were very friendly and amiable, and told Isaac he must use his guest-right, and sit down and drink with them; for Isaac had risen to leave the table, saying he had satisfied his hunger. Question: How did Isaac feel when he saw the inside of the house? Answer: awe
Context: And catching hold of Shiro's neck he held the dog's head to the ground, so that Shiro began to scratch and dig in order to free himself from the horrid old man's grasp. As he went on digging a foul smell was noticeable, and he at last came upon a refuse heap. Question: What did the old man come upon? Answer: a refuse heap
Context: Pleased and excited the six elder sisters at once followed the boy, but the youngest, who was busy, and who did not care about strangers, stayed behind, to finish the work she was doing. And as soon as she reached the tree it bowed itself to the earth before her, and she stretched out her hand and picked some of its leaves and flowers and gave them to the king. Question: What did the youngest daughter give to the king? Answer: some of its leaves and flowers
Context: So he went along its length, "for sooner or later I will come to the end of it," thought he. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: How did Per Gynt notice he was going in a circle? Answer: He ran into the crooked one twice.
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: What did the monks see when they looked outside the window? Answer: the bird
Context: Murmur was given a few cart-loads of provisions in his big knapsack, and once more set out. But the troll was not out in the open, and the mountain was closed, so Murmur could not get it. Question: Who had a better appetite than Murmur? Answer: whoever got hold of his cart
Context: "Now, I have suffered enough for the red shoes," she said; "I will go to church, so that people can see me." And so she went boldly on; but she had not got farther than the churchyard gate when she saw the red shoes dancing along before her. Question: Why did Karen turn back and repent of her sin? Answer: she saw the shoes dancing in front of her
Context: "I'll call to him," she replied, "to come up to Cullamore and refresh himself, and maybe that will give you and Finn time to think of some plan to get yourselves out of the scrape. "I'll do that with a heart and a half," replied Oonagh; "and, indeed, Granua, I feel myself under great obligations to you for your kindness in keeping him off us till we see what can be done; for what would become of us all if anything happened to Finn, poor man!" "Never mind," said Granua, "I must only do the best I can with Far Rua. Question: How will Granua feel when she does not receive the miscaun? Answer: disappointed
Context: Wassamo felt himself moved, he knew not how, and placed upon a couch. One spoke to him and said: "Stranger, awake, and take something wherewith to refresh yourself." I pile them up, and blow them about, and do whatever I will with them. Question: What did the Old Spirit-man wish? Answer: get one of Wassamo's race to marry among his people
Context: And as he was sitting there in the forward cabin, he heard voices within the ship. He peered through a crack, and there were three coal-black crows sitting inside the deck-beams, and they were talking about their husbands. Question: How did the crows feel about their husbands? Answer: annoyed
Context: You need not take for granted that a fellow is a vagabond because he goes about in rags. But the youth insisted that it was gospel truth, and took a birch bough, and drove his father to the king's castle-gate. Question: How did the father feel about his son's request? Answer: confused
Context: He cast his eyes upon his wife, and continued:  "For you, my partner in life, I have less sorrow, because I am persuaded you will not remain long behind me. I have contented myself with the company of your mother and yourselves, during seasons of very frequent scarcity and want. We have not been compelled to look on or to take a part with the red hand in scenes of rioting and bloodshed. Question: Why did the man have less sorrow for his wife? Answer: She would not remain long behind him.
Context: To tell you more I am not permitted, but go on as you have begun and you will not be disappointed. Early in the morning the old man ordered his magic kettle to prepare breakfast, so that his guest might eat before leaving. Question: What did Maidwa and the old man do after their talk? Answer: slept
Context: This was the moment for which the brave Prince had been waiting. Ere he could reach the tent door the Prince was at his heel, his garments were clutched by a hand of iron, and a dagger flashed before his eyes and he lay stabbed to the earth, dying but not yet dead. Question: How did Takeru feel when he saw what the Prince did to his brother? Answer: afraid
Context: THERE lived in a certain village a poor old woman who had collected a mess of beans, and was going to cook them. The coal answered,  "I jumped out of the fire by great good luck, or I should certainly have met with my death. If the old woman had kept me in the pot I should have been cooked into a soft mass like my comrades." Question: What did the coal, bean, and straw decide to do? Answer: Join in good fellowship together and go abroad into foreign lands.
Context: 'Let us take it and row over to the island, where there must be a house,' said the eldest brother; 'and perhaps they will give us food and shelter.' The young men's hearts rejoiced as they thought that at last they would be able to rest their weary limbs, and they entered the hut, but were amazed to see an ugly old woman inside, wrapped in a cloak of gold which lighted up the whole house. Question: Why did the eldest brother suggest rowing the boat over to the island? Answer: There must be a house and perhaps they will give them food and shelter.
Context: The good old man was greatly surprised at what he heard, but respectfully followed the Knight to the nobleman's Palace. Then the Daimio said:  "You must make that dead cherry tree in my garden blossom again by means of your famous ashes. Question: How did the old man feel to hear the Knight's request? Answer: surprised
Context: Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods with nobody near her but her little dog; for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning at her door. The cradle was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and ornaments were of the same precious stuff. Question: Where did the young woman live alone? Answer: in the woods
Context: It was a judge of knots because it had a habit of tying up unfortunate blue-bottles. "I do not think"--said Samuel Whiskers, pausing to take a look at Tom Kitten--"I do NOT think it will be a good pudding. Question: What did the rats want to make out of Tom Kitten? Answer: a dumpling
Context: Up and down swam the fish, then he made the most dreadful contortions, and became suddenly quite still. She took up the soldier between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the room, where everyone wanted to see the hero who had been found inside a fish; but the Tin-soldier was not at all proud. Question: Why didn't the Tin-soldier want to cry? Answer: It would not have been fitting for a soldier.
Context: Lie there as a testimony of what has happened, and may evil betide the first living man that will ever attempt to move or injure you!" If all fail, I'll give him a cast of heather broth, or a panada of oak bark. Question: What will Granua do if all else fails? Answer: She will give FInn a cast of heather broth, or a panada of oak bark.
Context: When the wedding-day came, the friends and neighbours assembled, the miller having invited them, and the bridegroom also appeared. But the bride sat still, and said nothing, till at last the bridegroom said to her,  "Now, sweetheart, do you know no story? Question: What does the bridegroom ask the bride to do? Answer: tell a story
Context: And tell me what is that that you have hidden in your sleeve-show it to me at once." "Why," he said in great surprise, "this is the mirror that I brought as a gift to your mother when I went up to the capital many years ago! But still the father could not understand the simplicity of his daughter's character in not knowing that what she saw reflected in the mirror was in reality her own face, and not that of her mother. Question: What happened because the girl wanted to clear herself? Answer: slipped the mirror out from her long sleeve and laid it before him
Context: Now it happened that another great castle lay on the opposite side of the forest, in which dwelt a king who owned the forest, and many broad acres of field and meadow round about. And when the king came and happened to look out of his window, he saw the new castle, on whose roof the golden weathercocks were swinging to and fro, from time to time, shining in his eyes. Question: Where did another great castle lie? Answer: the opposite side of the forest
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. She paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife. Question: Who was among the women who waited on the princess and carried out her commands? Answer: A woman who had formerly been married and had two daughters.
Context: And Death stretched out his long hand towards the fine little flower, but she held her hands fast around his, so tight, and yet afraid that she should touch one of the leaves. I am His gardener, I take all His flowers and trees, and plant them out in the great garden of Paradise, in the unknown land; but how they grow there, and how it is there I dare not tell thee." " Question: Why did the mother's hands fall down? Answer: because death blew on them
Context: He had never heard such music since the hour that he was born. So he blessed the little white singing-bird, and gladly went his way. Question: What did the small bird sing upon? Answer: a holly-bush
Context: The fisherman spent several days in the cave, satisfying his hunger with the green slime, which he found edible and which tasted like rice-mush. He told the district mandarin what had happened to him, and the latter reported the matter to the emperor. Question: What did the emperor do when the district mandarin reported the fisherman to him? Answer: sent for a wise man and questioned him concerning it
Context: Time passed away in the peaceful home, and the parents saw their fondest hopes realized as their daughter grew from childhood into a beautiful girl of sixteen. As a gem of priceless value is held in its proud owner's hand, so had they reared her with unceasing love and care. Question: How did the daughter help her mother? Answer: took her part in the housekeeping
Context: 'Here, my poor darling,'says he, 'is your eldest child, and there,' says he, pointing to a woman that was looking on with a smile on her face, 'is the eagle that carried him away.' She forgot all her sorrows in a moment, hugging her child, and laughing and crying over him. It was the same to-day as yesterday: their shadows went before them in the morning and followed them in the evening. She wrung her hands and shed tears, but then she recollected herself, and cried out, 'Wood, I charge you by my three magic gifts, the scissors, the comb, and the reel--to let me through'; and it opened, and she went along a walk till she came in sight of a palace, and a lawn, and a woodman's cottage on the edge of the wood where it came nearest the palace. Question: What did the husband give to the youngest princess on the third day? Answer: a comb
Context: He bade his sister make a snare, for, he informed her, that he meant to catch the sun. But after awhile she brought forward a deer's sinew which the father had left, and which she soon made into a string suitable for a noose. Question: What did the girl make a cord out of? Answer: her own beautiful hair
Context: Wassamo was living with his parents on the shore of a large bay, far out in the north-east. The cousin, being the elder, attended to the nets, and they encamped near by, using the bark of the birch for a lodge to shelter them through the night. Question: What made Wassamo believe that he and his cousin were fortunate? Answer: The weather was clear.
Context: Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there, and sickness was a thing unknown. They were all tired of their long, long lives, and longed to go to the happy land of contentment called Paradise of which the priests had told them centuries ago. Question: Why could the islanders not reach Paradise? Answer: They could not die.
Context: With that the King whistled, and down came the poor goose, all as one as a hound, waddlin' up to the poor old cripple, her master, and as like him as two pays. Now,' says he, 'this is the bargain I'll make with you, King O'Toole: will you give me all the ground the goose flies over, the first offer, after I make her as good as new?' Question: What did the king offer if Saint Kavin could repair the goose? Answer: The king would give him whatever he asked.
Context: Wassamo in the mean while had lost the sound of his cousin's voice in the rich simmer of the kettle; and when its music pleased his ear the most, as announcing that the fish were handsomely cooked, he lifted the kettle from the fire. Wassamo had a torch of twisted bark in one hand to give light, and when he came to take out the fish, there was no one to have charge of the torch. Question: What did Wassamo do after he lifted the kettle from the fire? Answer: spoke to his cousin
Context: Walter is six years old, and he must soon begin to go to school. He was wonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at home with his brothers and sister, then he used often to say 'One wolf is nothing, there ought to be at least four.' Question: Why was Walter pleased? Answer: heard that there were a great many wolves in the wood
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. " He wants," says the red-headed fellow, "to make hares of your best men." " So one stood forward, with sword and pot-lid, and made a cut at Tom. Question: Why didn't the wizend like Tom? Answer: The princess looked fondly at Tom.
Context: Another month passed and Aduan, filled with gloomy thoughts, wished that death might be his portion. Yet the waters of the river stood up before him like walls, and no matter how often he ran against them, head down, they always flung him back. Question: What will Aduan do when he hears that Rose of Evening has cast herself into the river? Answer: tear his beautiful garments, take his gold and his pearls, and go out with the sole idea of following his beloved in death
Context: "We have orders," said they, "and we cannot return without trying the shoe on everyone, poor and rich, so stretch out your foot." And as I have it (i.e., the story) to-night, that ye may not have it to-morrow night, or if ye have it itself, that ye may only lose the back teeth by it! Question: How will the king's daughter feel when she finally meets the lad? Answer: happy
Context: Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto took no notice of what the hare said, but bidding the little animal goodby, went on his way quickly and soon overtook his brothers. But when she looked at the kind brother's face she went straight up to him and said:  "To you I give myself," and so they were married. Question: What happened to the hare? Answer: The hare has become famous as "The White Hare of Inaba."
Context: It chanced, one dark December night, that there was a dreadful storm at sea, and in the morning the beach was all strewn with wreckage. So as soon as it was daylight the two friends went down to the shore to see if they could find anything to eat. Question: How did the Wolf feel when they found the Keg of Butter? Answer: happy
Context: The three Princes were greatly surprised by their father's sudden fancy for a little dog, but as it gave the two younger ones a chance they would not otherwise have had of being king, and as the eldest was too polite to make any objection, they accepted the commission with pleasure. They bade farewell to the King, who gave them presents of silver and precious stones, and appointed to meet them at the same hour, in the same place, after a year had passed, to see the little dogs they had brought for him. Question: How did the three sons feel when the king suddenly wanted a dog? Answer: surprised
Context: From the first he has hated me,' but outwardly she showed nothing. And when the king asked her what news there was in the town she only answered:  'You have ridden far; eat first, and drink, for you must be hungry and thirsty, and then I will tell you my news.' Question: What was the brother's duty? Answer: wave the fan of peacock's feathers over the king's head to keep off the flies
Context: Not far from Baalsberg, near Filkestad in the Willandsharad, there is a hill in which a giant named Stompe Pilt once used to live. It happened one day that a goat-herd was driving his flock up the hill in which Stompe Pilt dwelt. Question: Who was driving his flock up the hill in which Stompe Pilt dwelt? Answer: a goat-herd
Context: And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "It is best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some place where we can spend the night." A man and a woman were in it, and when they saw him they said, "Bring your companions here along with you, and they will be welcome." Then Bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was. Question: Where did Fergus come to? Answer: a very small poor-looking house
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: What happened after Morraha thanked Rough Niall for the story? Answer: He struck the ground with the Sword of Light.
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: How did the goblins feel after they heard another human approaching? Answer: scared
Context: But they were not so very, very naughty after all, because Tom Thumb paid for everything he broke. He found a crooked sixpence under the hearth-rug; and upon Christmas Eve he and Hunca Munca stuffed it into one of the stockings of Lucinda and Jane. Question: Why are the two mice as not so very, very naughty after all? Answer: because Tom Thumb paid for everything he broke
Context: I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune. Yes, and the clergyman's wife noticed me and said I was the best piece of linen in the whole parish. Question: What does the maid do to the flax every morning? Answer: turns it over
Context: The pig swam across on his own bacon, which was easy enough; but the pancake could not get across. "Sit down on my snout," said the pig, "and I will carry you over that way." Question: Why could the pancake not get across the brook? Answer: It could not swim.
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: Why did Earl St. Clair hold Earl Gregory in his arms? Answer: Earl St. Clair was trying to warm him up.
Context: In spite of her fierce words, no one knew better than Barbaik how to put her pride in her pocket when it suited her, and after receiving an invitation to a wedding, she begged the brownie to get her a horse to ride there. To her great joy he consented, bidding her set out for the city of the dwarfs and to tell them exactly what she wanted. Question: What did Barbaik ask for from brownie? Answer: a horse to ride to the dance
Context: The third day he killed a partridge, and this they had for their evening meal. At last, although so very small of stature, he became a great hunter, and all that he shot he brought home and shared with his sister; and whenever he entered the lodge, a light beamed about his head and filled the place with a strange splendor. Question: What happened to Dais-Imid after he entered the lodge? Answer: a light beamed about his head and filled the space with a strange splendor
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: What did the girl do after her pot and mortar were missing? Answer: went and saw if any of her pumpkins were ripe
Context: The bracket bull used to be the first one of the cattle that used to come in every night, and the stepmother sent for two butchers, and she set them on each side of the gate to kill the bracket bull when he would come. The bull sent the cow out before him, going through the gate, and they killed her. Question: What did the bracket bull used to be? Answer: the first one of the cattle that used to come in every night
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: What happened whenever the servants visited the Prince's door? Answer: The frozen breath always gave the same answer.
Context: She fetched soft soap, and flannel, and a new scrubbing brush from the
storeroom. She swept, and scrubbed, and dusted; and she rubbed up the furniture
with beeswax, and polished her little tin spoons. Question: What did Mrs. Tittlemouse do after she finished cleaning up the house? Answer: She gave a party to five other little mice, without Mr. Jackson.
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. Let us follow him, and see from what part of the world he cometh." Question: Why did Earl St. Clair mutter prayers for protection? Answer: He knew that his friend had been bewitched.
Context: But the Emperor only smiled and called to them to stop, and said:  "Do not be afraid. And they all ran and caught hold of the Dragon's beard and tried to mount him. Question: Why did the Emperor mount the Dragon? Answer: His time there was finished.
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: What did the Fairies do after they went through the door? Answer: rested
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: What happened after the Fairies reached the rock? Answer: A mysterious door opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through.
Context: "Well, since I do happen to be here, I will at least make the attempt," said the prince. " And I want to try to deliver my brothers, who stand outside, turned to stone, and I would like to save you as well." " Aha," thought the prince under the bed, "that is where we will find it!" Question: What did the princess tell the prince to do? Answer: crawled under the bed and listen carefully when she talked to the giant
Context: There was only one person who was not pleased at Hase-Hime's success. At last the step-mother, seizing the opportunity of her husband's absence, ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl to the Hibari Mountains, the wildest part of the country, and to kill her there. Question: Why was Hase-Hime's step-mother mortified to see her step-daughter do well? Answer: brooding over the death of her own child
Context: "I have no doubt you are right, Brother Peepi," rejoined Gray Eagle. " Gray Eagle seated himself hard by, while Peepi started out, and soon pounced upon a duck. Question: What did Gray Eagle say he would do after his strength was fully recovered? Answer: go out with Peepi to-morrow and help him look after the greedy bush-ranger
Context: As Owasso, with his convoy of birds, passed over, he let fall, directly in the face of the old magician, a capful of gulls' eggs. The old magician was quite distressed in his mind that he had not destroyed his son-in-law. Question: How will the Manito feel seeing Owasso? Answer: shocked
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What happened after Morraha gave a groan? Answer: The chair broke in pieces.
Context: When the king saw it he declared he would never rest until he had found the tree which bore it, even if he had to spend the rest of his life in visiting the islands that lay all round. 'Seven girls live in a hut down there,' replied the boy, pointing with his finger to where the sun was setting. Question: Who wanted to find the tree? Answer: the king
Context: When they sat down to the table the king's son--the same who had been at the giant's--said it would be no more than right to invite the maiden, too, who had lent them the poker, and the door and the calf: "for if we had not had these things, we should not have moved from the spot." They were to carry the king's kindest greetings, and ask that the maiden come up to the castle and take dinner with them. " Question: How did the Master Girl feel to be reunited with the king's son? Answer: happy
Context: The bracket bull used to be the first one of the cattle that used to come in every night, and the stepmother sent for two butchers, and she set them on each side of the gate to kill the bracket bull when he would come. The bull sent the cow out before him, going through the gate, and they killed her. Question: Who did the stepmother send to get the bracket bull? Answer: two butchers
Context: Now it chanced one day, as the king's daughter was sitting alone in her room, that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared. But the queen had the last word in the end, and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess, even though it be against her will. Question: Where did the king's daughter think to go? Answer: the forest
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: How did Ness get the chief men of Ulster on her side? Answer: gave great presents
Context: The hours slid by, and all was still, so still that Manawyddan well-nigh dropped asleep. He could no more come up with them than if they had been gnats, or birds of the air, save one only which lingered behind the rest, and this mouse Manawyddan came up with. Question: How did Manawyddan feel after he saw the mice eating his crops? Answer: angry
Context: And when the monk replied that he had seen nothing, the other continued: "Bonze, you should not lie! I have already slain a countless number of them, and have pretty well done away with them. Question: Why did the stranger want to find the girl? Answer: This girl was not a human being, but a flying ogre.
Context: "There," said he, as she sunk in the stream, "you would ever do what was forbidden. The family of the hunter, grateful for his generous help, adopted the bird as their family emblem or mark, and under the guardianship of the Crane that Crossed the River, they prospered, with days of plenty and nights of peace. Question: How did the hunter's family feel about the crane's help? Answer: grateful
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' said the man of the house, 'you have divided it very fairly.' ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' The four men instantly attacked the ram all at once with their swords, but though they laid on violently, it did not affect him in the least, and the blows fell away as from a stone or rock, so that they were forced to resume their seats. ' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: How did the old man prove that he was more powerful than anyone? Answer: He rendered the ram powerless.
Context: To tell you more I am not permitted, but go on as you have begun and you will not be disappointed. Early in the morning the old man ordered his magic kettle to prepare breakfast, so that his guest might eat before leaving. Question: What did the old man order his magic kettle to do? Answer: prepare breakfast
Context: 'I can't forget a person I have never known,' was the rude answer. 'He died six months ago,' said the rich brother, 'and he left you, as your portion, the old wooden chest that stands in the loft. Question: What did the father leave the older brother? Answer: the old wooden chest
Context: We cannot shelter you, and have to leave the house ourselves, because the place is alive with trolls every Christmas Eve!" Then the bear lay down behind the hearth, Per took out his awl, his pitch and his wire, and set out to make a single large shoe out of the pig's skin. Question: What happened after the trolls put their feet in the shoe? Answer: Per Gynt laced it, forced in a wedge, and then drew the lace so taut that every last one of them was caught and held in the shoe
Context: how sorry Little Lasse was now that he had been disobedient and got into the boat, when father and mother had so often forbidden him to do so! He heard the low words which Little Lasse said to God, and he immediately drew the boat to himself and laid Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rose leaves. Question: How was Little Lasse disobedient? Answer: He did not listen to his parents.
Context: When I entered the city the onlookers were crowded together like walls. Five or six visitors sat in a circle about the princess, and a general led me to my place. And the princess said: 'This is the foe because of whom I have sought your aid. Drums and kettledrums sounded together, the ring closed around them on all sides and the robber army suffered a grievous defeat. The dead lay about like hemp-stalks, but little Tschauna succeeded in breaking through the circle. Question: What will the general do after he hears the news? Answer: call together the captains, have the army mustered and ride out before the city
Context: They were just turning in at the gate to the barn of Farmer Potatoes. They went into the barn, and hauled their parcels with a bit of string to the top of the haymow. As for Farmer Potatoes, he has been driven nearly distracted. Question: What did Farmer Potatoes' barn? Answer: They eat up the chicken food, and steal the oats and bran, and make holes in the meal bags.
Context: AND while Mr. Jeremy sat disconsolately on the edge of his boat--sucking his sore fingers and peering down into the water--a MUCH worse thing happened; a really FRIGHTFUL thing it would have been, if Mr. Jeremy had not been wearing a macintosh! JEREMY bounced up to the surface of the water, like a cork and the bubbles out of a soda water bottle; and he swam with all his might to the edge of the pond. Question: Why did the trout spit out Mr. Jeremy? Answer: It was displeased with the taste of the macintosh.
Context: Soon even this grew to be unnecessary, for a day arrived when, coming downstairs, she discovered that the house was swept, the furniture polished, the fire lit, and the food ready, so that she had nothing to do except to ring the great bell which summoned the labourers from the fields to come and eat it. This, also, she thought was the work of Jegu, and she could not help feeling that a husband of this sort would be very useful to a girl who liked to lie in bed and to amuse herself. Question: What did Barbaik find to be done at her house? Answer: The house was swept, the furniture polished, the fire lit, and the food ready.
Context: "I want to find the lodge with the wicked young women in it, who slay travellers and steal their trappings," answered Ko-ko. Have you any bones about the house; for I suppose I shall have to climb that tree." Question: Who did the old woman say was still living? Answer: the father
Context: "Very well," said the leader of the buffalos, whose form was nothing but bone. " Maidwa turned away, for it was very dark, and it pained his eyes to look upon it; and, moving away by the aid of his guardian spirits, he again stood upon the earth, and beheld the sun giving light as usual. Question: What will happen once Maidwa finds the magic arrow at the lodge-door? Answer: Maidwa will live to a very old age and die happily.
Context: My trousseau is not quite complete, but by the time you come again all shall be ready." So she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way, and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them, and when he had done so he set forth. He took a roundabout way, the longest he could find, for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling, and the talk about marriage. The weather and the road were exactly the same as when he had gone before. Question: What will happen now that the youth has returned again? Answer: the wedding
Context: I took a bar of iron, and put it in the fire till it was red, and I said to the hag, "He will be howling at first, but will fall asleep presently, and do not wake him until he has slept as much as he wants. I was well satisfied, and I had no liking for delay to get myself free from the hag, and I took them on board the ship, and the child I had myself. Question: How did the thief look? Answer: The thief had only one eye in his forehead.
Context: You can imagine the feelings of the poor crab after waiting patiently, for so long as he had done, for the tree to grow and the fruit to ripen, when he saw the monkey devouring all the good persimmons. Again and again, as fast as he could pick them, the monkey pulled off the hard persimmons and threw them at the defenseless crab till he dropped dead, covered with wounds all over his body. Question: How did the crab feel when he saw the monkey taking the persimmons? Answer: upset
Context: Being small and foolish, and feather-headed, flying hither and yonder without any set purpose, it so happened that Peepi always came home, so to phrase it, with an empty game-bag, and his pinions terribly rumpled. I kill ducks and other birds every time I go out; but just as I get to the woods, on my way home, I am met by a large ko-ko-ho, who robs me of my prey; and," added Peepi, with great energy, "it's my settled opinion that the villain lies in wait for the very purpose of doing so." Question: Why did Gray Eagle demand to know the cause of Peepi's ill-luck? Answer: Peepi always came home with an empty game-bag.
Context: Saying this, he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse and went out to his work in the fields. Her face was seamed with many wrinkles, and was as brown as leather, and every now and then she stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face. Question: Why was the woman perspiring? Answer: She was working hard.
Context: A long, long time ago, a little boy was living with his sister entirely alone in an uninhabited country, far out in the north-west. As soon as he heard this, he said to his sister, "I am now a young man and very much in want of a companion;" and he asked his sister to make him several pairs of moccasins. Question: Where did the boy and his sister live? Answer: in an uninhabited country far out in the northwest
Context: The five Ancients withdrew after they had done their work, and thereafter lived in quiet purity. She leads the rounds of the fairies, and watches over change and growth. Question: What did the Dark Lord do in later ages? Answer: sent Confucius down upon earth as a saint
Context: Whenever guests came, his wife laid the table for the old folk in the bake-house, and on each occasion so much money was left lying there, that before long they did not know what to do with it all. Once he wanted to go to town, and since it was fall, and the ground already frozen, the horse had first to be shod. Question: How did the dragoon feel about his wife? Answer: dissatisfied
Context: 'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp--'it's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. ' Well, when the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the King. The goose flew round every individual acre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, bein' let into the secret by Saint Kavin, who was mighty cute. Question: What happened after the king said he would keep his word? Answer: Saint Kavin became king.
Context: Yet, in about a year's time nearly all his children had died. The Lord of the Mountain smiled: "Did I not tell you in the start that the quick and the dead tread different paths, and that it is not well if they abide near each other permanently? Question: What will the Lord of the Mountain do when Hu-Wu-Bau's father does not fulfill his duty? Answer: appoint another field-god for that village, and also give the father another place
Context: 'I'd like to wring their necks,' said the magician, and made all haste home, where he had every one of his servants beaten to within an inch of their lives. We'll only go and look at what's to be seen in the town for about an hour, and then we'll continue our journey to my father's kingdom.' Question: Where did the Magician go after he talked to the monk? Answer: home
Context: "And that is the truth," the woman replied, "for he grants my every wish before it is spoken." "Well," said the woman, "if that will help, I will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it, for then he always takes a little noon-day nap." Question: What would happen if the woman cut off the pair of long hairs under her husband's chin according to Kitta? Answer: The man would be altogether without malice.
Context: "In the course of your journey you will come to a large grape-vine lying across your path. You will next come to something that looks like bear's fat, of which you are so fond. Question: Why did Bokwewa tell Kwasynd not to touch the frog's eggs? Answer: Kwasynd would be overcome by the soft habits of the idle people.
Context: The charcoal-burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment, as if they could hardly believe their ears. When they were ready, one of the king's special servants entered, and took them into a small hall, where dinner was laid. Question: What did the king tell the couple to do? Answer: Lock their door, and put the key in their pocket.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: How did the evil one feel when Aspenclog chopped his leg? Answer: fearful
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: Why did the voice hold onto the King's beard? Answer: The voice was insulted by the King.
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: Why did Fionn release Roc? Answer: He wanted to help Roc.
Context: Presently it began to rain, and the drops fell faster and faster, till there was a heavy shower. Suddenly the boat shot under a bridge which formed a part of a drain, and then it was as dark as the tin soldier's box. Question: What shows that the tin soldier was scared? Answer: he trembled
Context: Thereupon he drew the scholar Liu through a high gateway, ornamented
with bosses and a ring in a lion's mouth, as is the custom in the
dwellings of those of high estate. And when he entered the hall, an old lady with white hair and bent
back, leaning on a cane, came forward and asked: "What man is this?" Question: Who is nearly a hundred years old, but fortunately is still strong and in good health? Answer: the mistress
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: Where did the Abbot come to? Answer: his Abbey
Context: Well, it was one morning when they came to tidy up the lumber-room; they threw it really rather roughly on the floor, but a servant dragged it off at once downstairs, where there was daylight once more. The yard opened on a garden full of flowers; the roses were so fresh and sweet, hanging over a little trellis, the lime-trees were in blossom, and the swallows flew about, saying: 'Quirre-virre-vil, my husband has come home;' but it was not the fir-tree they meant. Question: Why did one of the children call the old fir-tree ugly? Answer: The fir-tree's branches were all withered and yellow; and it was lying in a corner among weeds and nettles.
Context: Yet when she had lain down and put out the light, she saw a man come in and cast himself down in a corner. But first you must promise me that you will never speak to your mother alone; but only when others are present. Question: What did the maiden see when she put out the light? Answer: a man come in and cast himself down in a corner
Context: The children looked round wonderingly, and saw a little kind-looking old man, in a white coat and a red cap, limping out from among the bushes, for he was lame in his left foot; neither Lisa nor Aina could utter a word, they were so filled with surprise. 'Yes, indeed we have,' said both the girls, 'but tell us...' and they wanted to ask who the old man was, but were afraid to. Question: Why couldn't the old man laugh properly? Answer: His mouth was crooked.
Context: Then she reached the three cutting swords, and got on her plough-wheel and rolled over them. But she knew that the Prince whom she had freed from the iron stove in the great wood was in the castle. Question: Why was the Prince about to marry another princess? Answer: The Prince thought the Princess was dead long ago.
Context: While sleeping, the sun beat so hot upon him that it not only singed his bird-skin coat, but it so shrivelled and shrunk and tightened it upon the little boy's body, as to wake him up. On coming home he gave an account of his misfortune to his sister, and bitterly bewailed the spoiling of his new coat. Question: What happened to the boy's bird-skin coat after the boy slept? Answer: not only singed his bird-skin coat, but it so shrivelled and shrunk and tightened it upon the little boy's body
Context: The princess spoke to her in her usual friendly way: "Good evening, motherkin. No doubt it is my fate to grieve," said the princess, "and I can never be happy again. If you can do that then you need not worry, for then one will appear who will tell you what to do." Question: How did the queen's daughter feel when the king's daughter went into the little hut? Answer: annoyed
Context: In a beautiful island that lies in the southern seas, where chains of gay orchids bind the trees together. One morning, however, as she was staggering along with her bundle on her back, she thought that the river which flowed past their hut looked so cool and inviting. Question: What did the youngest sister decide to do one morning? Answer: bathe
Context: When the bundle was laid before him, Maidwa opened one of the bags which had been given to him. The chief himself talked with Maidwa of his adventures, congratulated him on his good fortune, and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning. Question: Who had thought to have got this chief's daughter for a wife? Answer: a foolish fellow
Context: The Dark Man didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and he seemed to have no suspicion of me. I got into bed, and couldn't sleep for a long time; and when I examined my five guineas this morning, that I left in the table drawer the last thing, I found five withered leaves of oak--bad luck to the giver! Question: How did the poor man feel while he heard this story? Answer: fright
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: What happened after Jack tore the Princess' smart clothes? Answer: He pricked her all over with his bristles.
Context: Once upon a time there dwelt in the land of Erin a young man who was seeking a wife. So on a fine day the girl and her husband, and the father and his wife all went out upon the moor. Question: Who did the young man marry? Answer: daughter of a farmer
Context: PETER sat down to rest; he was out of breath and trembling with fright, and he had not the least idea which way to go. After a time he began to wander about, going lippity--lippity--not very fast, and looking all around. Question: Who did Peter encounter at the door? Answer: an old mouse carrying peas and beans to her family in the wood
Context: There lay the lamp in the great armchair near the warm stove. The old people sat at their supper, casting friendly glances at it, and would willingly have admitted it to a place at the table. Question: How far below ground was the cellar? Answer: two yards
Context: Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them. Thus did the wife find consolation in work during the lonely days of her husband's absence. Question: What did the husband do after his business finished? Answer: came home
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: Why were the goblins worried about the stranger? Answer: He might work them ill, and rescue their captive from them.
Context: After waiting several days, as the dog Shiro did not return, his master began to grow anxious. Several days passed, and Shiro's master waited in vain for the mortar, so he went to call on the borrower. He asked him to be good enough to return the mortar if he had finished with it. Question: Why did the old man not want to lend the mortar to his neighbor? Answer: The neighbor killed his dog.
Context: He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves, he handed it to his guest. "I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. Question: What did the old man draw from his sack? Answer: a curiously-wrought antique pipe
Context: The tender leaves were bursting out of their sheaths, and covering all the trees with a fresh soft mantle of green; and amongst the carpet of moss under the young man's feet, yellow primroses and starry anemones were turning up their faces to the morning sky. The little birds were singing like to burst their throats, and hundreds of insects were flying backwards and forwards in the sunshine; while down by the burnside the bright-eyed water-rats were poking their noses out of their holes, as if they knew that summer had come, and wanted to have a share in all that was going on. Question: How did Thomas feel after seeing the beautiful woods? Answer: so happy
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. Thankee," says Tom; "now would you open the gate for a body and I'll give you no more trouble." " It is easier getting inside them gates than getting out again. And when he got home to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running and racing as to see himself and the flail. Question: Why did the Ould Boy wink at the young imp? Answer: He wanted the imp to trick Tom.
Context: 'I will tell you who I am,' said the old man; 'I am the raspberry king, who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and I have lived here for more than a thousand years. Now yesterday was just my transformation day, and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to death if you had not saved my life. Question: Why did the raspberry king have a limp and a crooked mouth? Answer: He was swept away from your table I twisted one of my feet, and his mouth became crooked with terror.
Context: The following day the Prince of the Dragon's Cave held a review of his dancers. When the dance began, tremendous waves spouted up to the very skies, and then fell down again like star-glimmer which scatters in the air. Question: What happened when the dance of the Ogres began? Answer: tremendous waves spouted up to the very skies, and then fell down again like star-glimmer which scatters in the air
Context: With these words the Lady raised her hunting-horn, and blew a loud and piercing blast; and, as she did so, a marvellous change came over her again; for her ugly ash-covered gown dropped off her, and the grey in her hair vanished, and she appeared once more in her green riding-skirt and mantle, and her face grew young and fair. Immediately the sound of the horn rang out, the doors of the Castle flew open, and the King hurried out to meet the Queen, accompanied by such a number of Knights and Ladies, Minstrels and Page-boys, that Thomas, who had slid from his palfrey, had no difficulty in obeying her wishes and passing into the Castle unobserved. Question: Who hurried out to meet the Queen? Answer: the King
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Who came up to Tom? Answer: a big joiant
Context: Ko-ko of course bethought him of the bones, for that was just what, as he knew, had occurred to Onwee Bahmondang under the like circumstances. He then desired that they would turn him into an opossum; an application which met with the same luck as the previous one. Ko-ko, in spite of all his begging and supplication and beseeching, was obliged to be still Ko-ko. Question: What happened after Ko-ko called on several guardian spirits to turn him into a squirrel? Answer: Not one of all them seemed to pay the slightest attention to his request.
Context: Once upon a time there lived a man in the forest of Dovre whose name was Ola Storbaekkjen. In the summer he dealt in cattle at Valders and the fjords, and fought with the fjord-folk and the hill people of Halling and Valders, and always had the best of it. Question: Who lived in the forest of Dovre? Answer: Ola Storbaekkjen
Context: It should be explained that two young mice, who were waiting on the others, went skirmishing upstairs to the kitchen between courses. Several times they had come tumbling in, squeaking and laughing; Timmy Willie learnt with horror that they were being chased by the cat. Question: How did Timmy Willie feel about the mice being chased by the cat? Answer: horror
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. Question: What happened after Finn lopped off the roots and branches of a fir-tree? Answer: He made a walking-stick of it and set out on his way to Oonagh.
Context: "I'll call to him," she replied, "to come up to Cullamore and refresh himself, and maybe that will give you and Finn time to think of some plan to get yourselves out of the scrape. "I'll do that with a heart and a half," replied Oonagh; "and, indeed, Granua, I feel myself under great obligations to you for your kindness in keeping him off us till we see what can be done; for what would become of us all if anything happened to Finn, poor man!" Question: Why did Granua say she would tell Far Rua to refresh himself at Cullamore? Answer: to give Oonagh and Finn time to think of some plan to get themselves out of the scrape
Context: The maiden now rode for many days and weeks, and it took a long, long time before she came to the East Wind. But if you wish, I will take you to my brother, the West Wind, and perhaps he can tell you, for he is much stronger than I am. The maiden did as he told her, and then they moved swiftly away. When they found him, the West Wind asked whether the South Wind could show them the road that led to the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon. Yes, it is true that I have gone about a good deal during my life," said he, "yet I have never blown so far. cried he, as soon as he caught sight of them, so that a cold shiver ran down their backs. Question: What was different about the North Wind compared to his brothers? Answer: The North Wind was wild and unmannerly.
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Who joined themselves to the Christian faith? Answer: the family of Murtough
Context: Once upon a time there was a youth called Moti, who was very big and strong, but the clumsiest creature you can imagine. Now a serai, you must know, is generally just a large square enclosed by a high wall with an open colonnade along the inside all round to accommodate both men and beasts, and with perhaps a few rooms in towers at the corners for those who are too rich or too proud to care about sleeping by their own camels and horses. Question: Where did Moti rest for the night? Answer: the travelers' 'serai'
Context: They had nearly all of them disappeared, while the scholar's eyes
were still fixed on them full of terror and astonishment, and he could
not imagine whence they had come. Then he returned and looked all
about his room; but there was nothing to be seen. Question: What did the scholar do after he found the little hunting dog? Answer: quickly caught it and found it quite tame
Context: When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. She lay in a green opening in the midst of a thick, dark wood, and beside her lay the bundle of poor belongings she had brought from home. Question: What did the maiden do after she awoke alongside her poor belongings? Answer: rubbed the sleep out of her eyes and had cried her fill
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: Why did the ould thief let Tom go? Answer: Tom defeated his men.
Context: Then the whole company of crocodiles arranged themselves in the water so as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of Inaba. So the hare hopped off the island on to the strange bridge of crocodiles, counting as he jumped from one crocodile's back to the other:  "Please keep quite still, or I shall not be able to count. Question: What would happen if the crocodiles moved? Answer: the hare would fall into the sea and be drowned
Context: He spoke no more, and as the sun fell out of view the light had gone from his face. He exerted himself to supply, with his bow and net, the wants of the little household, but he never made mention of his father. Question: Why did the man speak no further? Answer: He died.
Context: After a time the priest came by, and he was so old and decrepit that his wife and daughter led him. When the priest had been led to the pulpit he delivered what seemed to the listening schoolmaster a really fine and edifying sermon--but one, it appeared to him, of quite a peculiar trend of thought, which he was not always able to follow. Question: Why did the priests wife and daughter lead him? Answer: He was so old and decrepit.
Context: She then brought Far Rua down to see the place, which was then all one solid rock; and after looking at it for some time, he cracked his right middle finger nine times, and, stooping down, tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length, which has since been christened by the name of Lumford's Glen. Finn now gave a skirl that frightened the giant, as coming from such a youngster as he was represented to be. " Far Rua was thunderstruck, and secretly thanked his stars that he had the good fortune to miss meeting Finn, for, as he said to himself, I'd have no chance with a man who could eat such bread as that, which even his son that's in the cradle can munch before my eyes. Question: What will happen when Far Rua bites into another cake? Answer: Far Rua's teeth will fall out.
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Why did everyone dislike the wolf? Answer: He lost the child.
Context: She pulled them off the wall, smacked them, and took them back to the house. She sent them upstairs; and I am sorry to say she told her friends that they were in bed with the measles; which was not true. Question: What do were the kittens were doing in their room? Answer: playing
Context: said the Prince, looking round on the flames and the smoke that crackled and rolled in towards him on every side. " Dangerous as was his situation now, the Prince was not in the least confounded. Question: How did Yamato feel about being trapped? Answer: rage
Context: As Jack had but little money, he went on as fast as possible. Soon after this he heard the giant walking backward and forward in the next room, and saying to himself:    "Though here you lodge with me this night,   You shall not see the morning light;   My club shall dash your brains out quite." Question: How did Jack describe himself to the Welsh giant? Answer: a traveler who had lost his way
Context: The moment his eye fell upon this jet black braid he was delighted. " He fixed his snare firmly on a spot just where the sun must strike the land as it rose above the earth. Question: What did the council propose someone to do? Answer: cut the cord
Context: The third day the prince went by, and stopped to talk with the strange woman. He said that he often did, but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweet song in his dreams, and could not wake, and that the voice was one that he must have known and loved in some other world long ago. Question: Why did the witch's daughter make a third bargain with the youngest princess? Answer: She wanted the hand-reel.
Context: At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him, and poured out questions as to what had happened, and why he looked like that. Question: How did the king and queen finally recognize his son? Answer: heard his voice
Context: "Dear lady," said the wily badger, "you must be very weary doing such heavy work in your old age. My arms are very strong, and I could relieve you for a little while!" Question: Why wouldn't the woman untie the badger? Answer: He might escape.
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Why did the wolf go to the garden? Answer: He knew there was a place in the garden where he could hide myself, for fear she should see him.
Context: But if he cooks gold here, I wonder what he cooks inside, there?" May God be your aid, for it is a fine service you have chosen!" Question: What would happen if the king's son does as the others have done, according to the maiden? Answer: For every shovelful he pitched out, ten fresh shovelfuls would fly in.
Context: Then Mr. Korbes came home, and went to the hearth to make a fire, but the cat threw ashes in his eyes. Then he was going to wipe it with the towel, but the egg broke in it, and stuck his eyelids together. Question: What happened to Mr. Korbes when we returned home? Answer: the cat threw ashes in his eyes
Context: Now there was a little garden round the enchanted house, in which grew twelve tall lilies. So the poor girl found herself left all alone in the wood, and as she looked round her she noticed an old woman standing close beside her, who said:  'My child, what have you done? Question: What happened after the girl plucked the twelve lilies? Answer: Her brothers turned into twelve ravens, who flew croaking over the wood.
Context: The robber agreed with delight, feeling certain of victory, for he was famous as a fencer in his province and he did not know who his adversary was. for the rebel the sword was the wooden one of the young Prince and in vain Takeru tried to unsheathe it-it was jammed fast, not all his exerted strength could move it. Question: How did Takeru feel when Prince Yamato suggested a sword fight? Answer: delight
Context: It was such a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill, for Walter got a seat on the load, while Caro ran barking beside them. Thereupon Walter began to beat his drum with all his might while they were going through the wood. Question: Why was it a good thing that Jonas was going with corn to the mill? Answer: Walter got a seat on the load.
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: How will Duivsech feel when Murtough drives her family out and follow Sheen's wishes? Answer: devastated
Context: But the bird came to the resolution next day never again to fetch wood: he had, he said, been their slave long enough, now they must change about and make a new arrangement So in spite of all the mouse and the sausage could say, the bird was determined to have his own way. So they drew lots to settle it, and it fell so that the sausage was to fetch wood, the mouse was to cook, and the bird was to draw water. Question: What was the bird's new business? Answer: to draw water
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. Question: What did Maidwa remember his elder brother saying? Answer: In their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows.
Context: As years went by, however, things did not go as smoothly as at first. Then at last he began to grow tired of life in this country, and he longed to see his own land and his old home. Question: What will Sentaro do because he grew tired of the country? Answer: try to go back home
Context: "My friends are flying up and down the Nile, and talking to the large lotus-flowers. "It is very cold here," he said; "but I will stay with you for one night, and be your messenger." Question: Why did the Swallow choose to stay with the Happy Prince for the night? Answer: The Happy Prince looked so sad.
Context: said the poor woman, and directly let go her hold of both the flowers. " And she looked down into the well; and it was a happiness to see how the one became a blessing to the world, to see how much happiness and joy were felt everywhere. Question: What does Death return to the mother? Answer: her eyes
Context: And, to the young man's horror, as soon as their lips had met, an awful change came over her. She saw the poor man's astonishment and terror, and she burst into a mocking laugh. Question: How did Thomas feel after he heard the Queen of Fairies' demands? Answer: scared
Context: Yamato Take now bade farewell to his aunt, and once more placing himself at the head of his men he marched to the farthest East through the province of Owari, and then he reached the province of Suruga. The Prince was utterly deceived by the cordiality of his host, which was all feigned, and gladly consented to join in the hunt. Question: Why did the governor invite the Prince to a deer hunt? Answer: He was trying to trick the Prince.
Context: But little recked the horse-dealer of Arthur and his Knights, nor yet of Thomas the Rhymer. He was riding along at a snail's pace, thinking over the bargains which he had made at the fair that day. Question: Who had white hair and an old-world dress and seemed almost to start out of the ground? Answer: a venerable man
Context: Unluckily he had a hasty temper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Together they took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town. Question: What should have the king done to see if the brother's words were true? Answer: sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: What happened after Jack my Hedgehog called out to the King? Answer: The King coaxed and entreated his daughter to go with Jack and so save both their lives.
Context: Everybody looked at her feet, and the whole of the way from the church door to the choir it seemed to her as if even the ancient figures on the monuments, in their stiff collars and long black robes, had their eyes fixed on her red shoes. The organ pealed forth solemnly, and the sweet children's voices mingled with that of their old leader; but Karen thought only of her red shoes. Question: What was Karen thinking about during her confirmation? Answer: her red shoes
Context: The hero of the piece would only play in a part containing points likely to bring down the applause of the house. I only wished I had them all in my box again, and that I had never been their director. Question: what did the actors do to the man? Answer: killed him
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: What happened after the King heard the Prince's story? Answer: The King told the Prince what had happened at the time of his birth.
Context: Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed. I am now obliged, whether I like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, and marry her daughter. Question: What did the youngest princess do the next night? Answer: She got a few drops of the sleepy posset that she saved the evening before put into her husband's night drink.
Context: So when the latter stepped out, she had to listen to all sorts of abuse from her step-sister, as was to be expected. She was much pleased and ran up at once to pick it; but that very moment it disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away. Question: What will the king's daughter do when the lily reappears further away? Answer: chase after it
Context: Now Sentaro determined to set out to find the hermits, and if he could, to become one, so that he might obtain the water of perpetual life. So he left his old home to the care of his relatives, and started out on his quest. Question: What happened when Sentaro made it to the top of the peaks? Answer: Never a hermit did he find.
Context: Hence he made surprising progress in the course of a few months. The old custom was followed of writing an essay every five days, and celebrating its completion with a little banquet. Question: How was the youth exceptionally gifted? Answer: Whatever he had seen but once was graven in his memory.
Context: It was the Festival of the Cherry Flowers, and there were great festivities at the Court. The Emperor threw himself into the enjoyment of the season, and commanded that Princess Hase should perform before him on the koto, and that her mother Princess Terute should accompany her on the flute. Question: Why did the Emperor sit behind a curtain of finely-sliced bamboo and purple tassels? Answer: No ordinary subject was allowed to look upon his sacred face.
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: Why was Conchubar's nephew flushed and shy? Answer: There were with the King the chief warriors of the Red Branch.
Context: Once upon a time there was a master mariner who had the most unheard of good fortune in all that he undertook; none had such splendid cargoes, and none earned so much money as he did, for everything seemed to come to him. Thus he sailed for many years with cargoes of lumber, and even went as far as China, and earned money like hay. Question: Why was Sir Urian after the master mariner? Answer: That very day and hour the contract expired.
Context: Unluckily he had a hasty temper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Together they took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town. Question: What happened after the brother accused the sister of being a witch? Answer: He believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too.
Context: All would have gone well if Farquhar had only looked where he was going. His companions sped merrily on, not noticing what had befallen him. Question: Why did Farquhar strike against the chimney and stuck fast in the thatch? Answer: He did not look where he was going.
Context: Jack my Hedgehog continued to herd his pigs, and they increased in number till there were so many that the forest seemed full of them. Jack my Hedgehog mounted his cock, and driving his pigs before him into the village, he let every one kill as many as they chose, and such a hacking and hewing of pork went on as you might have heard for miles off. Question: Why did the farmer know nothing about Jack my Hedgehog all this time? Answer: Jack my Hedgehog never went home.
Context: So she did not dare to refuse any longer, and brought out as much money as he could possibly carry in his knapsack. Now no sooner had he gone than the devil came home, and when he learned that Murmur had taken along a big bag of money. Question: Why did Murmur begin to run as fast as he could? Answer: the devil was at his heels
Context: Upon that the monk did not dare deceive him, but pointed to the hollow tree. The messenger of the skies dismounted, stepped into the tree and looked about him. Question: What happened to the ogre after the old Buddhist monk revealed where she was hiding? Answer: The ogre had probably been hit by an arrow or captured.
Context: John Blessom once upon a time had gone down to Copenhagen to carry on a suit at law, for in those days one could not get justice in the land of Norroway; and if a man wanted his rights, there was nothing left for him to do but to travel to Copenhagen. Now it chanced that on Christmas Eve John had had speech with the gentleman in authority, and had attended to his business, and was going along the street in a low-spirited manner, for he was homesick. Question: What was the man from Vaage wearing? Answer: a white blouse, with a knapsack, and buttons as big as silver dollars
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. This time he had to fight with a giant with two heads on him. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." At last, what should come through the town but a kind of bellman, only it's a big bugle he had, and a huntsman's cap on his head, and a kind of painted shirt. So, without burning any more daylight, he kissed his mother, curled his club at the little boys, and he set off along the yalla highroad to the town of Dublin. Question: What will Tom do when he goes to Dublin? Answer: try to make the King of Dublin's daughter laugh
Context: The nails glittered like stars, and twinkled with live light as stars do in a frosty night, and the blade of it quivered like a tongue of white fire. There was a ring of flame round Tara that night, for the Fians and the warriors of Conn had torches in their hands, and all the royal buildings of Tara showed clear in the light, and also the dark serpentine course of the Boyne, which flowed past Tara on the north; and there, standing silent and alert, were the innumerable warriors of all Erin, with spear and shield, keeping watch and ward against the son of Midna, also the Four Pillars of Tara in four dense divisions around the high King, even Conn the Hundred-Fighter. Question: What happened after these things were given to FInn? Answer: The man was not seen.
Context: The door of the castle stood open, and they entered a great hall, and looked about them. The sight quite dazzled Martin and Michael, who emptied all the provisions that remained out of their bags, and heaped them up instead with handfuls of copper. Question: How did Martin feel after entering the castle? Answer: a little frightened
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived not very far from John of Groat's house, which, as everyone knows, is in the very north of Scotland. He lived in a little cottage by the sea-shore, and made his living by catching seals and selling their fur, which is very valuable. Question: Where did the man live? Answer: in a little cottage by the sea-shore
Context: Mike by the Stove replied that he had neither said nor thought anything of the kind; but that seeing the king was so severe, he would try it. When he had sat down in all peace and comfort under a pine-tree by the side of the road, an old woman came limping along, and asked him what he had in his knapsack. " Question: How did the woman feel towards Mike by the Stove for sharing his food? Answer: thankful
Context: The Prince returned to his room in despair; then the Princess Hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee, and asked him, 'Why so sad, Prince Milan?' With these words she breathed on the window, and her breath froze on the pane. Question: Where did Hyacinthia and the Prince hurry to? Answer: the spot where they had descended into the lower world
Context: Those who hold it are too powerful for the magician, and many have sacrificed themselves to recover it for him, but without success. He will show you the course to take, and if you feel inclined, as I see that you do, go forward, my son, with a strong heart; persevere, and I have a presentiment that you will succeed. Question: What did the magician do when he supposed it was time? Answer: invited Maidwa to help himself
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: Where did the Prince hear rustling sounds? Answer: in the hollow of the tree
Context: Time went on, and the hungry spring came, and the Fox and the Wolf had their larder bare, for food was scarce, and the weather was bleak and cold. The Fox agreed--having made up his mind how he would act--and the two set out to the place where the Keg had been hidden. Question: What did the Fox and the Wolf do after they went to find the Keg of Butter? Answer: scraped away the sand, and uncovered it
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: Why was the beautiful child sent to the couple? Answer: to be the son of their old age
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: Why did the sister believe a thief must had stolen her pot and mortar? Answer: She could not find them.
Context: Suddenly a bright light came towards him, and in the light stood a messenger. The messenger held a book in his hand, and spoke to Sentaro:  "I am sent to you by Jofuku, who in answer to your prayer, has permitted you in a dream to see the land of Perpetual Life. Question: How did Jofuku know Sentaro's desire for death was not real? Answer: He cried loudly for help when he thought the shark would eat him.
Context: Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both their breasts; and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle and trampling and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised. He spread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, and he could see her plain; but such a hullabulloo rose as if there was an earthquake, and he found himself surrounded by horrible-looking things, roaring at him and striving to pull his wife away. Question: What happened after the poor man held onto his wife? Answer: Everything was as silent as the grave, and the poor woman lying in a faint in the arms of her husband and her good neighbour.
Context: When it was morning, and the children had got up, the Tin-soldier was put in the window; and whether it was the wind or the little black imp, I don't know, but all at once the window flew open and out fell the little Tin-soldier, head over heels, from the third-storey window! they must have found him; but he did not think it fitting for him to cry out, because he had on his uniform. Question: How did the little boy feel when he could not find the Tin-soldier? Answer: sad
Context: Then the landlord's coach came to the door, and the two Englishmen and the peasant got in, and away they drove. Now we shall have plenty of milk, and butter, and cheese on the table. Question: How did the wife respond to her husband after hearing the exchange of horse for a cow? Answer: delightful
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: Why did the noise cease? Answer: The young nobles' sport was interrupted.
Context: The man, who feared to shake hands with the giant, drew a red-hot bar of iron from the fire and handed it to him. He seized it firmly, and pressed it so hard that the molten iron ran down between his fingers. Question: How did the man feel when he was asked to shake the giant's hand? Answer: fearful
Context: There was once a worthy old couple who lived on the coast, and supported themselves by fishing. This son's name was Uraschimataro, which means in Japanese, 'Son of the island,' and he was a fine well-grown youth and a good fisherman, minding neither wind nor weather. Question: What did Uraschimataro do when the neighbours believed the waves would end swallowing him up? Answer: paid no heed to these remarks
Context: He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves, he handed it to his guest. "I shake my ringlets," rejoined the young man, "and warm showers of soft rain fall upon the earth. Daylight fully revealed to the young man the character of his entertainer. Question: Why did the tongue of the old man become silent? Answer: The sun began to rise.
Context: At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him, and poured out questions as to what had happened, and why he looked like that. Question: How did the king and queen feel after they saw their son? Answer: concerned
Context: A long, long time ago, a little boy was living with his sister entirely alone in an uninhabited country, far out in the north-west. As soon as he heard this, he said to his sister, "I am now a young man and very much in want of a companion;" and he asked his sister to make him several pairs of moccasins. Question: Why did the man ask his sister to make him several pairs of moccasins? Answer: He was going to visit another village.
Context: One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting expedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitch their camp. While the food was cooking they all stretched themselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off to sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over the sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire was almost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savage countries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light it again. Question: What did Thuggai try to do to light the fire? Answer: rub two sticks together in the hope of kindling a flame
Context: Now the old lady fell ill, and it was said that she would not rise from her bed again. But when she wanted to go to the right, the shoes danced to the left, and when she wanted to dance up the room, the shoes danced down the room, down the stairs through the street, and out through the gates of the town. Question: Where did Karen wear her shoes to? Answer: the ball
Context: They asked of her, "Who art thou, maiden, and wherefore art thou come to the house of mourning? And she said, "Murtough was dear to me, indeed, dearest of the men of the whole world; for I am Sheen, the daughter of Sige, the son of Dian, from whom Ath Sigi or the 'Ford of Sige' is called to-day. Question: Who did the maiden slay? Answer: Murtough of the many deeds, of the race of Conn and Niall, High King of Ireland and of the West
Context: answered Bale, nine miles away, "the sun and I wake together! Question: What did Starkard ask Bale to bring? Answer: a bit of meat
Context: In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and he held his court in the palace of Emain Macha. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called the children of a king. Question: Why did Fergus agree to Ness' request to let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year? Answer: He loved Ness.
Context: The wife listened to all her husband told her, and was pleased at learning so much that was new to her. It seemed to the little family as if they had not known what true happiness was before, so glad were they to be together again, and this evening the father had much to tell of his journey and of all he had seen at the great capital. Question: Why did the wife treasure the gift? Answer: It represented her soul.
Context: I vowed that I would follow the Green Knight," he replied, "and I will carry out my vow, even if the venture leadeth me close to the nethermost world." He walked through their ranks till he came to the middle of the Circle; and there, seated at a table of red marble, was the Knight whom he had come so far to seek, clad in his grass-green robes. Question: What happened after Earl Gregory came to the middle of the Circle? Answer: The Knight seated at a table of red marble.
Context: Long, long ago, there lived an old man and his wife who had three sons; the eldest was called Martin, the second Michael, while the third was named Jack. One evening they were all seated round the table, eating their supper of bread and milk. Question: How many sons did the old man and his wife have? Answer: three
Context: he thought; 'but she is so grand, and lives in a castle, whilst I have only a box with four-and-twenty others. When the night came all the other tin-soldiers went into their box, and the people of the house went to bed. Question: What did the toys do when the people of the house went to bed? Answer: began to play at visiting, dancing, and fighting
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: How will the girl feel after the snake started speaking? Answer: surprised
Context: So saying the Grisly Goblin stepped back among his companions, leaving Earl St. Clair standing alone on the outskirts of the charmed Ring. There he waited, shivering with cold, through the long, dark hours, till the grey dawn began to break over the hill tops, and, with its coming, the Elfin forms before him seemed to dwindle and fade away. Question: What did Earl St. Clair do after he heard  the sound of the Matin Bell? Answer: began his solemn walk
Context: He came to the river of nine bends, whose green waters flowed along between two rows of weeping-willows. So the Dragon-King sent out a Triton, terrible to look upon, who was to find out what was the matter. Question: How did Notscha shake the castle of the Dragon-King? Answer: whisked about his scarf in the water
Context: "It is time to mount and ride, Thomas," she said, "if thou wouldst ever see the fair Castle of Ercildoune again." Thou spokest of seven long years, Lady," he exclaimed, "and I have been here but three days." Question: What did Thomas need to do to go back home? Answer: mount and ride the palfrey
Context: The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! The crane so addressed was of extraordinary size, and had arrived at a great old age, and, as might be expected, he sat, when first descried by the two sons, in a state of profound thought, revolving his long experience of life there in the midst of the most violent eddies. Question: Why did the crane say to not touch the crown of his head? Answer: The crane was bald from age and long service, and very tender at that spot.
Context: This the king did not wish done at all; but the princess tormented him so that finally he yielded in this as well. They were all of the same mind, but when they had carried the wood a while, it grew terribly heavy. Question: What did the maids do with the silver wood? Answer: kept it in the wardrobe
Context: The man jumped out of bed in a great hurry, and began to look about him. When the mourners saw a man coming towards them with nothing on but his nightshirt, they forgot in their fright what they were there for, and fled to hide themselves. Question: What will the third husband do after his wife told him that he already had clothes on? Answer: rush to the funeral
Context: Then young Kung was exceedingly happy and begged his friend to act for him in arranging the marriage, which the latter promised to do. A special court was put in order for the young pair, and the wedding was celebrated. Question: How did Kung feel when he married A-Sung? Answer: happy
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. He, therefore, in his greedy nature, felt very envious of the crab's nice dumpling, and he proposed an exchange. Question: What happened because the crab did not want to give up the dumpling? Answer: He would not consent to the monkey's proposition.
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Yet, though their raiment was bright and gay, and though all the usual instruments of festivity were there, and a thousand tall candles shed their light over the scene, no one looked happy. One is coming to Tara this night before whose glory all other glory shall wax dim." Shortly after that they heard the voices of the doorkeepers raised in contention, as if they would repel from the hall someone who wished to enter, then a slight scuffle, and after that a strange figure entered the chamber. Question: Why was every face gloomy? Answer: They expected the son of Midna to arrive.
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: How did the goblins know the stranger was untouched by any charm? Answer: The human footsteps were so free and untrammelled.
Context: But she answered,  "That is all very fine; suppose one of you should fall on my head," and went on farther. The first day she put her hand well to the work, and was industrious, and did everything Mother Hulda bade her, because of the gold she expected; but the second day she began to be idle, and the third day still more so, so that she would not get up in the morning. Question: Why didn't Mother Hulda give the ugly daughter gold? Answer: because she didn't help
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: What did Hyacinthia tell the Prince to do when he reached the presence of her father? Answer: throw himself at once on the ground and approach her father on his knees
Context: Gopani-Kufa went back to his kraal, and with the new moon he returned again to the spot where he had saved the python. Gopani-Kufa at first was afraid, thinking of what the antelope had said, but finally he consented and followed Insato into the forest. Question: How did Gopani-Kufa feel upon hearing Insato's promise? Answer: afraid
Context: In the meantime the Master Girl sat by the seashore, and waited and waited; but no king's son came. But the whole hut was as dark and dirty as a pig-sty; therefore the Master Girl said she would clean up a bit, so that things would look as they did in other, decent people's houses. Question: What did the old woman not want the Master Girl to do? Answer: clean up a bit
Context: His surname meant "Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he was still very far removed from being poor. One day, without any reason whatsoever, the thought of death and sickness came to him. Question: Why could Sentaro spend his time carelessly and without any serious thoughts of work? Answer: He had inherited a small fortune from his father and lived on this.
Context: Once upon a time there lived in France a man whose name was Jalm Riou. You might have walked a whole day without meeting anyone happier or more contented, for he had a large farm, plenty of money, and above all, a daughter called Barbaik, the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side. Question: How does the story describe Barbaik? Answer: the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side
Context: Then he stepped rapidly into the rear room and soon returned saying: "My father has come." As Kung rose an aged man with a long, white beard and eyebrows stepped into the room and said, greeting him: "You have already declared your willingness to instruct my son, and I am grateful for your kindness. Question: What did the youth's father tell Kung to do? Answer: be strict with him and to not treat him as a friend
Context: It was the Festival of the Cherry Flowers, and there were great festivities at the Court. The Emperor threw himself into the enjoyment of the season, and commanded that Princess Hase should perform before him on the koto, and that her mother Princess Terute should accompany her on the flute. Question: What did the Emperor command? Answer: Princess Hase should perform before him on the koto.
Context: "Why," answered the old man, "it is a matter of course that a father should bring up his son. When you are older it will be your turn to take care of us, so after all there will be no profit or loss between us--all will be equal. Question: What would Momotaro do when he turns older according to the old man? Answer: take care of them
Context: A wooden wand is always kept before her holy picture in the cabin. But a storm is always near Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Which last sentence was both unjust and untrue, for the poor Wolf looked as lean and badly nourished as he could possibly be. "Yes, I am," replied the Wolf firmly; and, standing in the middle of the cave, and holding one paw up solemnly he swore this awful oath:      "If it be that I stole the butter; if it be, if it be--     May a fateful, fell disease fall on me, fall on me." Question: What did the Fox and Wolf do while they both went to the cave? Answer: argued all the way
Context: A similar experience befell a man and his wife who lived in a hut known as Ingas, below Mosled. And when the actual mass began, there was found lying at every place some of the earth from the graves of those who shortly before had been worshiping. Question: Why did the man and his wife fall grievously ill? Answer: They had disturbed the dead.
Context: It was a very dark night, and there was neither moon nor star to light Watanabe on his way. To make the darkness worse a storm came on, the rain fell heavily and the wind howled like wolves in the mountains. Question: What made the journey difficult for Watanabe? Answer: it was very dark
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: What did Cairnech bless? Answer: the clans of Owen and of Niall
Context: He awoke in a fright, while the hamper was being lifted into the carrier's cart. Then there was a jolting, and a clattering of horse's feet; other packages were thrown in; for miles and miles-jolt-jolt-jolt! Question: Why did Timmy Willie feel frightened when he woke up? Answer: the hamper was being lifted into the carrier's cart
Context: We will share your sufferings; we will abandon our journey, and take care of you as you did of us before we were able to take care of ourselves. Do you think we can so soon forget your brotherly care, which has equaled a father's, and even a mother's kindness? Question: What will happen to the falcons if their elder brother dies? Answer: They will die.
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: Where did the Prince arrive at on the third day? Answer: a lake
Context: The giants used to put--each man of them--a shout of him every evening. There's some change in the caher[2] to-night," said the gentleman, when he heard the two shouts. Question: Why did the gentleman say there was a change in the caher? Answer: He heard two shouts.
Context: Men call me Queen, but it is of a far other country; for I am the Queen of Fairy-land, and not the Queen of Heaven." And certainly it seemed as if what she said were true; for, from that moment, it was as if a spell were cast over Thomas, making him forget prudence, and caution, and common-sense itself. Question: Why did the Queen of Fairies want Thomas to ask her for a kiss? Answer: She knew that if she once kissed him she had him in her power.
Context: Not far from Baalsberg, near Filkestad in the Willandsharad, there is a hill in which a giant named Stompe Pilt once used to live. It happened one day that a goat-herd was driving his flock up the hill in which Stompe Pilt dwelt. Question: Who used to live on a hill not far from Baalsberg? Answer: Stompe Pilt
Context: They marched along as fast as they could, but still it was farther away than it seemed. They went in and sat down, and the old man laid an armful of wood and a couple of big logs on the fire, until every corner was as bright as day, and wherever they looked everything was indescribably splendid. Question: How did the prince's father feel to see him? Answer: excited
Context: The man was rather surprised at first, as he felt particularly well that evening; but the moment his wife spoke he became quite certain that he had something dreadful the matter with him, and grew quite pale. 'I dare say it would be the best place for me,' he answered, trembling; and he suffered his wife to take him upstairs, and to help him off with his clothes. Question: Why did the husband grow pale? Answer: because he was certain that he had something dreadful the matter with him
Context: While traveling about her estates, Madame Margaret one evening came to the tavern in Fjelkinge. Those who knew about it preferred to travel a post-station further in the dark, rather than pass the night in the room in question. Question: Why did people prefer to travel a post-station further in the dark, rather than pass the night in the room in question? Answer: the room had been haunted
Context: Karen believed that this was all on account of the red shoes, but the old lady thought them hideous, and so they were burnt. One day the Queen was travelling through that part of the country, and had her little daughter, who was a princess, with her. Question: Why were the shoes burnt? Answer: because the old lady thought they were ugly
Context: One day Ali Baba is at work collecting and cutting firewood in the forest, and he happens to overhear a group of forty thieves visiting their treasure store. When the thieves are gone, Ali Baba enters the cave himself, and takes some of the treasure home. Question: What does Ali Baba do when the thieves are gone? Answer: enters the cave himself, and takes some of the treasure home
Context: In a church-nave a specter sat night by night, and the specter's name was Torre Jeppe. One night three tailors were working at a farmstead in the neighborhood. Question: Who was the specter? Answer: Torre Jeppe
Context: Tsin Schi Huang was much alarmed, and had the grave closed again. But when he reached Schakiu he fell ill of a hasty fever of which he died. Question: What happened after Emperor Tsin Schi Huang closed the grave? Answer: He fell ill of a hasty fever of which he died.
Context: The King's son conducted her to the most honorable seat, and afterward took her out to dance with him; she danced so very gracefully that they all more and more admired her. While Cinderella was thus amusing her sisters, she heard the clock strike eleven and three-quarters, whereupon she immediately made a courtesy to the company and hasted away as fast as she could. Question: Why did Cinderella go to the ball the next day? Answer: The King's son had desired her.
Context: When I entered the city the onlookers were crowded together like walls. Five or six visitors sat in a circle about the princess, and a general led me to my place. And the princess said: 'This is the foe because of whom I have sought your aid. Drums and kettledrums sounded together, the ring closed around them on all sides and the robber army suffered a grievous defeat. The dead lay about like hemp-stalks, but little Tschauna succeeded in breaking through the circle. Question: How will the guests feel when they hear the news? Answer: scared
Context: For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her. When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest. Question: What did the girl long for? Answer: a draught of milk from a gourd
Context: So when they had reached the gentleman's house, and the peasant had given him the pig, he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so. And at night, when the peasant was fast asleep, the old woman came and took away his rooster, and put another in its place. Question: What did the peasant receive as payment for the pig? Answer: a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so
Context: When they were all assembled and seated in a circle, the old chief took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians around, to see if any thing would happen when they smoked. From that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor, and as soon as White Feather had, at the request of the company, faithfully recounted his history, the old chief, who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived, ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs; which being done, the whole six giants were at an end, and never troubled that neighborhood again, forever after. Question: What did White Feather request? Answer: a buffalo robe
Context: "It must look very grand for my wife to have a sentinel to guard her nest," he thought. " When they chanced to catch sight of the storks, one of the boldest of the boys began to sing the old song about the stork. Question: what was the crowd of children doing before they saw the stork? Answer: playing
Context: When the matter was settled the peasant might have turned back, for he had done the business he came to do. Leading the animal, he strode on sturdily, and, after a short time, overtook a man who was driving a sheep. Question: Why did the peasant refuse to to turn back? Answer: bcause he was already determined to go to the fair
Context: shrieked Moti, and ran up and, just as the tiger, in astonishment, dropped a bone--whack! Men gathered in groups talking and exclaiming, and finding fault with the innkeeper for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai, and all the while the innkeeper was just as troubled as the rest, and none dared go near the place where the tiger stood blinking miserably on everyone, and where Moti lay stretched out snoring like thunder. Question: Who did the men blame for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai? Answer: the innkeeper
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: What did the poor man do after he could not find his strange visitor? Answer: put up his spade, he wended his way homewards, and going straight to his master, he told him the whole story, and suggested that in future the peats should be taken from the other end of the moor
Context: "Well, since I do happen to be here, I will at least make the attempt," said the prince. " And I want to try to deliver my brothers, who stand outside, turned to stone, and I would like to save you as well." " Aha," thought the prince under the bed, "that is where we will find it!" Question: Where did the giant keep his heart? Answer: under the threshold of the door
Context: "This is a wonderful place," said the goblin; "I never expected such a thing. So he went downstairs again to the huckster's shop, and it was a good thing he got back when he did, for the cask had almost worn out the lady's tongue. Question: Who did the goblin leave the tongue on when he went to the student's room? Answer: the cask
Context: So the cock built a beautiful carriage with four red wheels, and he harnessed four little mice to it. The cock answered,      "On Mr. Korbes a call to pay,     And that is where we go to-day!" Question: What did the cock build? Answer: a beautiful carriage with four red wheels
Context: When seamen lose their course among wind and waves and darkling
clouds, they pray devoutly to the Queen of Heaven. When she does
this the wind departs for the North and South, and the waves grow
smooth. Question: What did the Queen of Heaven do to make the wind depart and waves grow smooth? Answer: stood in the skies, divided the wind with her sword
Context: HUNCA MUNCA tried every tin spoon in turn; the fish was glued to the dish. THEN there was no end to the rage and disappointment of Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca. Question: What did Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca break up? Answer: pudding, the lobsters, the pears, and the oranges
Context: "Now father has gone, you and I must take care of everything till he comes back," said the mother, as she made her way back to the house. "O, yes, when he comes home again how happy I shall be," said the child, clapping her hands, and her face growing bright with joy at the glad thought. It seemed to the mother as she looked at the child's face that her love for her grew deeper and deeper. Question: What will the man give his daughter when they return home? Answer: a doll
Context: At the end of the tunnel the drain fell into a large canal over a steep place, which made it as dangerous for him as a waterfall would be to us. He was too close to it to stop, so the boat rushed on, and the poor tin soldier could only hold himself as stiffly as possible, without moving an eyelid, to show that he was not afraid. Question: What happened when the tin soldier reached the end of the tunnel? Answer: he went over a waterfall
Context: Once upon a time there was a prince or a duke or whatever you choose to call him, but at any rate a noble tremendously high-born, who did not want to stay at home. He at once found friends and acquaintances, no matter where he came; for whoever has a full trough can always find pigs to thrust their snouts into it. Question: Why did the duke travel about the world? Answer: He did want to stay at home.
Context: 'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp--'it's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. ' Well, when the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the King. The goose flew round every individual acre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, bein' let into the secret by Saint Kavin, who was mighty cute. Question: Why didn't the king eat the goose? Answer: He loved the goose.
Context: Nearly two thousand years ago this sword was kept at the shrines of Ite, the temples dedicated to the worship of Amaterasu, the great and beautiful Sun Goddess from whom the Japanese Emperors are said to be descended. There is a story of knightly adventure and daring which explains why the name of the sword was changed from that of Murakumo to Kasanagi, which means grass clearing. Question: Where was the sword kept nearly two thousand years ago? Answer: shrines of Ite
Context: You have but three days more, and your term will be completed. The father addressed Iadilla as he had the day before, and promised that he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him by the dawn of the morning. Question: How did the father respond to Iadilla's second request? Answer: as he had the day before
Context: I am on the wane, and no lamps have ever given me light, while I have frequently shone upon them." But this seemed to the lamp a very shabby present, and the wind thought so, too. " Question: Who gifted the street lamp a drop? Answer: the gray clouds
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: What did Setanta long to be? Answer: one of the four-footed beasts that he beheld wending their way to the wondrous city
Context: About a week passed by: then one day the Fox came into the cave, and flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted. But it was not to a christening that the sly Fox went; it was to the Keg of Butter that was buried in the sand. "Nothing less than 'Blaisean' (Let-me-taste)," replied the Fox, throwing himself down in his corner. Question: Why did the Fox tell the Wolf that he needed to go to the christening? Answer: He planned to go to where the Keg of Butter was buried in the sand.
Context: The top, also, was no longer young; but there came a day when he looked handsomer than ever; for he was gilded all over. He was now a golden top, and whirled and danced about till he hummed quite loud, and was something worth looking at; but one day he leaped too high, and then he, also, was gone. Question: Where did the top jump into? Answer: dust-bin
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: Why couldn't the thirtieth little duck come to land? Answer: Its garment was missing.
Context: This was the moment for which the brave Prince had been waiting. Ere he could reach the tent door the Prince was at his heel, his garments were clutched by a hand of iron, and a dagger flashed before his eyes and he lay stabbed to the earth, dying but not yet dead. Question: Why could Takeru not escape? Answer: Prince Yamato was too quick for him.
Context: At this point, old Mrs. Rabbit's voice was heard inside the rabbit hole calling--"Cotton-tail! Peter's coat and shoes were plainly to be seen upon the scarecrow, topped with an old tam-o-shanter of Mr. McGregor's. Question: Why was Peter not hurt after falling own on his head? Answer: The bed below was newly raked and quite soft. It had been sown with lettuces.
Context: Osseo lived happy and contented in the parental lodge, and in due time his wife presented him with a son, who grew up rapidly, and in the very likeness of Osseo himself. He was very quick and ready in learning every thing that was done in his grandfather's dominions, but he wished also to learn the art of hunting, for he had heard that this was a favorite pursuit below. Question: What did Osseo make to gratify his son? Answer: a bow and arrows
Context: The rebel was being driven backward by the royal troops when he again resorted to magic. Kotei by pointing to the shinansha could find his way and directed the army without a single mistake. Question: What did Kotei do with the help of the shinansha? Answer: directed the army without a single mistake
Context: But he left her no peace, till she went and unlocked the room and showed him the twelve coffins filled with shavings, and with the little pillow laid in each. 'Yes,' replied his mother, 'that is what you must do-go with your eleven brothers out into the wood, and let one of you always sit on the highest tree you can find, keeping watch on the tower of the castle. Question: What did the Queen tell her son to do with his eleven brothers? Answer: go into the wood, and let one of them always sit on the highest tree they can find, keeping watch on the tower of the castle
Context: My name is Sadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no-Raiko. Now if you really wish him to be a samurai, I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service. Question: What did Sadamitsu do to find boys who gave promise of remarkable strength? Answer: assumed the disguise of a woodcutter
Context: "Dear lady," said the wily badger, "you must be very weary doing such heavy work in your old age. My arms are very strong, and I could relieve you for a little while!" Question: Why did the badger offer to help the woman? Answer: He wanted to escape.
Context: Yes, sure enough, just then a shaggy, reddish-brown wolf's head looked out from under the kiln! He certainly jumped on to Walter, but he only shook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face. Question: What happened after Walter ran away? Answer: The wolf ran after him.
Context: From the first he has hated me,' but outwardly she showed nothing. And when the king asked her what news there was in the town she only answered:  'You have ridden far; eat first, and drink, for you must be hungry and thirsty, and then I will tell you my news.' Question: Why did the girl owe all of her misery to her brother? Answer: He ruined her life.
Context: On the third morning the giant went off again with his goats. " You claim that she belongs to you, but perhaps, in spite of it, she may tell me what to do," and with that he went in to her. And if he asks how much you want, you must tell him as much as you can carry." Question: What must the king's son do with the club? Answer: strike the rock with it
Context: I do not just know how many there were, but the youngest was not content at home. In the morning the giant wanted to go off to herd his goats, and when he started he told the king's son he was to clean the stable in the meantime. " Question: What was the king's son to do while the giant was away? Answer: clean the stable
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I do," she answered, "for all secret and mysterious things are known to me and thou and all the men of Erin are well known." "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" She laughed a careless and a cruel laugh, for she knew that the King was in their power, now that she was there alone with him, and the clerics and the Christian teachers gone. " Question: How did the king feel towards Sheen? Answer: fearful
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: Why did the son always put off telling his father about his wife? Answer: hoping always for a better opportunity, and now this was the end
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: How did Finn feel about Far Rua about to departure? Answer: delight
Context: 'I am come by the powers of the agility of my arm and leg,' responded he, 'having heard there is not one man in the world more liberal in bestowing gifts than you, O Fionn. He then declared 'they were all liars who asserted that I never gave a refusal to any person.' When the Fenian chiefs saw that, they started in pursuit of the giant, while I and the band of minstrels of the town went to the top of the dun to watch their proceedings. Question: What did the giant ask from Fionn? Answer: the haunch
Context: I am so afraid that the buffaloes will butt us, and the great serpent eat us up. 'Very well,' said the dream-boy with the white coat, 'it is only a little way to Polynesia'--and then they were there. Question: Where did Little Lasse and the dream-boy go after Little Lasse did not want to land in America? Answer: Polynesia
Context: The money-pig was the only one who received a written invitation. The clock talked politics--"tick, tick;" he professed to know what was the time of day, but there was a whisper that he did not go correctly. Question: Why did they send the money-pig a written invitation? Answer: he's high up and they didn't think he would hear
Context: The lamp had very great anxiety about the next day, for it knew that it had to appear for the first time at the town hall to be inspected by the mayor and the council, who were to decide whether it was fit for further service; whether it was good enough to be used to light the inhabitants of one of the suburbs, or in the country, at some factory. If the lamp could not be used for one of these purposes, it would be sent at once to an iron foundry to be melted down. Question: Why was the lamp anxious? Answer: because it didn't know if it would remember anything once it was melted down
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: What did the bride plan to do after she finished shopping? Answer: pay a visit to her unknown sister-in-law, and rest for a bit
Context: It was a bright spring day, and the sun shone very warm and pleasant over the pastures, where the new grass was growing so juicy and tender that all the sheep thought they had never tasted anything so delicious. The sheep had had a strange experience that morning, for the farmer had taken them down to the brook and washed them, and then he tied their legs together and laid them on the grass and clipped all the heavy, soft wool from their bodies with a great pair of shears. Question: Why were none of the sheep in a very good temper that morning? Answer: They felt very strange.
Context: At last she pitied him, and removed the charm, and the horns dropped down on the ground, and he would have killed her on the spot, only he was as weak as water, and his fellow-servants came in and carried him up to the big house. Well, the witch's daughter heard about it too, and she came to see the strange girl; and what did she find her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper; and as she cut away, the paper became the richest silk she ever saw. Question: How did the witch's daughter feel after she heard the youngest princess's request? Answer: angry
Context: When the Princess heard this she began to cry, but it was no good; she had to keep her word. So she scraped away harder than ever, and made the hole so large that he could get out. Question: Why did the Princess scrape harder than ever? Answer: The princess peeped in and saw such a beautiful youth all shining with gold and precious stones that she fell in love with him on the spot.
Context: Then they went their way deeper into the wood, and in the middle of it, where it was thickest and darkest, they came upon a little enchanted house which stood empty. So they went forth into the wood, and shot hares and roe-deer, birds and wood-pigeons, and any other game they came across. Question: What were the rest of the brothers going to do while Benjamin kept the house? Answer: go out and fetch food
Context: And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles and helper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, by mine own unaided power, cannot work the like. She took of the water of the Boyne and made a magic wine thereout, and she took ferns and spiked thistles and light puff-balls of the woods, and out of them she fashioned magic swine and sheep and goats, and with these she fed Murtough and the hosts. Question: What happened after Murtough and the hosts ate? Answer: All their strength went from them.
Context: Then he opened the shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke small little bits of sticks for the rowers' seats. Some of the shells got broken, some remained whole, and when all were ready Lasse had twelve boats. Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water, and they floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over the waves of the ocean. Question: Where did Little Lasse go after he talked to the gardener? Answer: the shore
Context: But it took no notice, and just grew and grew; there it stood fresh and green in winter and summer, and all who saw it said, 'What a beautiful tree!' It could not think of happiness, it was sad at leaving its home, the spot where it had sprung up; it knew, too, that it would never see again its dear old companions, or the little shrubs and flowers, perhaps not even the birds. Question: Why didn't the fir-tree see its dear old companions again? Answer: The fir-tree was leaving its home.
Context: When the bundle was laid before him, Maidwa opened one of the bags which had been given to him. The chief himself talked with Maidwa of his adventures, congratulated him on his good fortune, and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning. Question: What was one of the bags filled with? Answer: various costly articles--wampum, robes, and trinkets, of much richness and value
Context: Once upon a time there lived in France a man whose name was Jalm Riou. You might have walked a whole day without meeting anyone happier or more contented, for he had a large farm, plenty of money, and above all, a daughter called Barbaik, the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side. Question: Why did Barbaik not care if women were whispering behind her back? Answer: She did not care as long as she knew that her clothes were finer than anyone else's and that she had more partners than any other girl.
Context: I vowed that I would follow the Green Knight," he replied, "and I will carry out my vow, even if the venture leadeth me close to the nethermost world." He walked through their ranks till he came to the middle of the Circle; and there, seated at a table of red marble, was the Knight whom he had come so far to seek, clad in his grass-green robes. Question: What did Earl Gregory do after he ignored the old and grizzled Goblin's words? Answer: stepped over the edge of the Circle
Context: Once upon a time there lived a man in the forest of Dovre whose name was Ola Storbaekkjen. In the summer he dealt in cattle at Valders and the fjords, and fought with the fjord-folk and the hill people of Halling and Valders, and always had the best of it. Question: What did Ola do during the winter? Answer: traveled from one fair to another hunting up quarrels and brawls
Context: There were many other playthings on the table on which they were being set out, but the nicest of all was a pretty little castle made of cardboard, with windows through which you could see into the rooms. The little lady was stretching out both her arms, for she was a Dancer, and was lifting up one leg so high in the air that the Tin-soldier couldn't find it anywhere, and thought that she, too, had only one leg. Question: Who was cut out of paper, but had on a dress of the finest muslin? Answer: the Dancer
Context: After they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. Soon after they hunted on a wager to see who should come in first with game, and have the privilege of acting as entertainer to the others. Maidwa, the youngest, had not gone far before he saw a bear, an animal he was not to kill, by the agreement. Question: Why did Maidwa feel something red linger the air all around him? Answer: He broke the agreement.
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: Where did Thomas and the Queen return to after they left Fairy-land? Answer: the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn
Context: At last he went out, but nothing could be seen or heard of the captive daughter. It would be a mortal shame, thought the king, to be outstripped by a man with one leg tied up; so, shouting and cheering, and issuing orders on all sides, he set the swiftest of his herd upon the track, with strict commands to take Aggo dead or alive. Question: Why did the buffalos think they could overtake Aggo easily? Answer: Aggo only had one leg.
Context: Then the cunning monkey began to persuade the crab, saying:  "How unwise you are not to think of the future! Of course, if you don't believe me I shall sow it myself; though I am sure, later on, you will be very sorry that you did not take my advice." Question: What did the Monkey do to persuade the crab? Answer: told the crab he could plant it and have persimmons for years
Context: For a teapot, this is the same as being buried, but in the earth was placed a flower bulb. The heart pulsed, and the bulb put forth sprouts; it was the springing up of thoughts and feelings which burst forth into flower. " Question: how did the teapot feel about holding the flower? Answer: glad
Context: No sooner had he spoken these words than something answered, close to his ear:  "What does my master command?" But it must be a very fine bed," said he; for as you may well imagine, his ideas were more top-lofty now that he had eaten well. "If you can produce such a meal, and such a bed here in the wild wood, you must surely be able to give me a better room; for you know I am one of those who are used to sleeping in a castle, with golden mirrors and rugs of gold brocade and luxuries and conveniences of every kind," said he. Question: What did the duke ask from Lasse? Answer: a little something to eat
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: How did the hunter feel when he saw the monster? Answer: surprised
Context: So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, which troubled both the king and the queen greatly. Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent's hearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting into his litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten all along the road. On hearing these words the brother stopped and asked, 'Where did he find such a woman?' Question: Why did the prince try to soften his parents' heart? Answer: He wanted their approval to marry the girl.
Context: Then he slept again, and he saw a vision, to wit, that he was tossing in a ship at sea, and the ship floundered, and above his head a griffin, with sharp beak and talons, sailed, her wings outspread and covering all the sun, so that it was dark as middle-night; and lo! as she rose on high, her plumes quivered for a moment in the air; then down she swooped and picked him from the waves, carrying him to her eyrie on the dismal cliff outhanging o'er the ocean; and the griffin began to pierce him and to prod him with her talons, and to pick out pieces of his flesh with her beak; and this went on awhile, and then a flame, that came he knew not whence, rose from the nest, and he and the griffin were enveloped in the flame. Question: What happened after a flame rose from the nest? Answer: Murtough and the griffin were enveloped in the flame.
Context: Time went on, and the hungry spring came, and the Fox and the Wolf had their larder bare, for food was scarce, and the weather was bleak and cold. And, besides, I can see by the sleekness of your fur that you have fared well of late." Question: What did the Fox do when he saw the empty Keg of Butter? Answer: blamed the Wolf for eating it
Context: She wept still more, and her eyes sunk down in the depths of the waters, and became two precious pearls. But the water bore her up, as if she sat in a swing, and she flew in the rocking waves to the shore on the opposite side. Question: What was the old grave woman appointed to do? Answer: look after Death's great greenhouse
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: What did the wife name her child? Answer: Jack my Hedgehog
Context: Quite unlike other boys, Kintaro, grew up all alone in the mountain wilds. By degrees they all grew quite tame and looked upon Kintaro as their master, and he used them as his servants and messengers. Question: Why did the animals follow Kintaro into the mountains? Answer: They were friends.
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: Who received the gift of beauty? Answer: Iris
Context: Although he provided for their support, the little spirit never performed household or hard work of any kind, and his sister obeyed. "She thinks," said the boy-man to himself, "I can see no further into the water than she. Question: Why did the boy disobey his sister on purpose? Answer: to call the attention of his sister
Context: When he came up to the shore he was surprised to see four large, tall men, lying on the ice, spearing fish. Seeing these four faces, as if they had been one, the little spirit or boy-man said to himself:  "Four in one! I may find a way to teach them that I am not to be treated so lightly." Saying which he rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water. Question: Why did the four men treat the boy poorly? Answer: The boy was small.
Context: The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was when the man returned from his work in the field. Sure enough, Shiro was waiting for his master and the evening tit-bit. Question: What was the happiest hour for the old man and his dog? Answer: When the man returned from his work in the field.
Context: "That is terrible disease for a Snow Man," said the yard-dog; "I have suffered from it myself, but I got over it. Ah, now I understand why he had such a great longing for the stove," said the yard-dog. " Question: What did the Snow Man have in his body that made him long for the stove? Answer: a stove scraper
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: Why did Tom have to go to Hell to get the flail? Answer: Redhead directed Tom there.
Context: She was still more angry when they made no answer to her complaint; but when she found that they were stark dead, and placed in this way to mock her, her fury was very great indeed. The old Toad-Woman was very anxious to get forward, but the snakeberry-vines kept spreading out on every side; and they still grow and grow, and spread and spread; and to this day the wicked old Toad-Woman is busy picking the berries, and she will never be able to get beyond to the other side, to disturb the happiness of the young hunter and his mother, who still live, with their faithful dog, in the shadow of the beautiful wood-side where they were born. Question: What happened after the young man called out for the snakeberry? Answer: berries spread like scarlet all over the path, for a long distance
Context: For a long time they cast patiently, without receiving a single bite; the sun had grown low in the sky, and it seemed as if they would have to go home empty-handed, not even with a basket of roots to show; when the youth, who had baited his hook with raw meat, suddenly saw his line disappear under the water. They looked at each other with horror, cold shivers running down their spines; for though they had never beheld it, there was not a man amongst them who did not know what it was--the cub of the awful Bunyip! Question: How does the story describe the creature? Answer: something of both calf and a seal with a long, broad tail
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Why did the princess give another great laugh? Answer: There was no fear of anyone being kilt.
Context: The bereaved father and daughter were wild with grief, and they abandoned themselves to their bitter sorrow. Her mother's last words had rung through her memory hitherto dulled by grief. Question: Why did the daughter decide to get the mirror? Answer: She remembered her mother's words.
Context: "Well, they belong to the same master," retorted the yard-dog. " I know every one here in the house, and I know there was once a time when I did not lie out here in the cold, fastened to a chain. Question: Why did the Snow Man know very little? Answer: he was only born yesterday
Context: So trouble and anger wrought in the witch woman, and she waited the day to be revenged on Murtough, for he being yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm. So when Sheen (for Sheen or "Storm" was the name men gave to her) saw the King seated on the fairy mound and all his comrades parted from him, she arose softly, and combed her hair with her comb of silver adorned with little ribs of gold, and she washed her hands in a silver basin wherein were four golden birds sitting on the rim of the bowl, and little bright gems of carbuncle set round about the rim. Question: Why did Sheen dress herself up before she approached the king? Answer: She wanted to be in a disguise.
Context: Then the scholar said: "I have a means of driving away old age!" Then his son and the older grand-children
came up and all asked for a drink of the wine. Question: How did the emperor feel when he received the magic wine? Answer: pleased
Context: I mean what our pavers call a maiden, a thing with which they ram down the paving-stones in the roads. At the top she is narrow, and has a stick passed across through her waist, and this stick forms the arms of the maiden. Question: what forms the arms of the maiden? Answer: the stick passed across through her waist
Context: He began to feel hungry, so he opened his bag and took out one of the rice-cakes and sat down under a tree by the side of the road to eat it. If you leave me all the cakes you have in your bag you may go; otherwise I will bite you till I kill you!" Question: Why did Momotaro take a rice-cake and sit down? Answer: He began to feel hungry.
Context: As soon as Duchess had got round the corner out of sight--she simply ran! Ribby went into the shop and bought what she required, and came out, after a pleasant gossip with Cousin Tabitha Twitchit. Question: Where did Ribby stop by before going home? Answer: Timothy Baker's
Context: And so they laughed and jeered, and it was so hot that the bear said, 'The enemy won't be here at this rate for many hours to come. When the cat saw the wild boar's ear, she pounced upon it, thinking it was a mouse in the straw. Question: What do the wolf and the boar decide to do? Answer: They decide to take a nap thinking that the enemy won't be here anytime soon.
Context: When he came within hail of the four large men, who were fishing there every day, he cast his ball with such force that it rolled into the ice-hole about which they were busy. Saying which he rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water. His ball bounded back to the surface, and, picking it up, he ran off, tossing it before him in his own sportive way. Question: What happened to the ball after the boy cast the ball with such force? Answer: rolled into the ice-hole
Context: "But is it certain that there is no one here who can overhear us?" "No, you can see there's not," said the others, the wives of the first and second quartermasters. " Question: Who were the other crows? Answer: the wives of the first and second quartermasters
Context: Among the mountain pastures and valleys that lie in the centre of France there dwelt a mischievous kind of spirit. Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plaiting together the manes and tails of two of the horses, so that it would take the grooms hours of labour to get them right in the morning. Puck, hidden among the hay in the loft, would peep out to watch them, enjoying himself amazingly all the time. Question: What couldn't the spirit change into? Answer: a needle
Context: So the Prince Toyonari and his wife went to the temple of Kwannon at Hase and stayed there for a long time, both daily offering incense and praying to Kwannon, the Heavenly Mother, to grant them the desire of their whole lives. A daughter was born at last to the Princess Murasaki, and great was the joy of her heart. Question: Why was the child named Hase-Hime? Answer: She was a gift of the Kwonnon at that place.
Context: The bird then very sadly took up the wood and carried it home himself, and related to the mouse all he had seen and heard. They were both very troubled, but determined to look on the bright side of things, and still to remain together. Question: What did the mouse do differently to the broth? Answer: She parted with fur and skin and with life.
Context: Perhaps you think that fishes were always fishes, and never lived anywhere except in the water, but if you went to Australia and talked to the black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country, you would learn something quite different. They would tell you that long, long ago you would have met fishes on the land, wandering from place to place, and hunting all sorts of animals, and if you consider how fishes are made, you will understand how difficult this must have been and how clever they were to do it. Question: Who knew about fishes that lived on land? Answer: the black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country
Context: The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. This he purposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when he expected to meet the third robber Takeru. Question: What did Idzumo Takeru do? Answer: done much harm in the land
Context: Now it was just dinner time, so they all had a dinner of raspberries and cream. ' Be careful with the sugar, Otto,' said the big sister; but Otto's plate was like a snowdrift in winter, with just a little red under the snow. Question: What happened after Otto did not listen to his big sister? Answer: Otto's plate was like a snowdrift in winter, with just a little red under the snow.
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. The King cried to go out and find the child, that he had got loose from the dog. When summer came I said I would try and go home to my own country. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child where he saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. When he saw a man standing before him he gave a cry, and I took him up in my arms. Question: Why was the wolf hiding? Answer: The wolf was afraid the woman would see him, as she was asking the child where he saw him.
Context: When he was about to leave, the man made him a present of a new fishing-boat, full of meal, and tackle and other useful things. All you need do is to follow the cormorant when he heads for the open sea, then you will be on the right course," said the man. " Question: What course did the man tell Isaac to set out to reach Urdost? Answer: follow the cormorant when he heads for the open sea
Context: She went into the smithy, and the first thing she did was to take the horse-shoe in both hands and bend it straight. "You have a great deal of strength in your fingers," said her husband, and he looked at her. Question: Why did the dragoon turn into one of the best husbands? Answer: He was scared of his wife.
Context: "Let the devil fetch the water, I'm far too handsome to bother with it!" When the king arrived, and saw the swart, homely kitchen-maid, he grew red and white in turn; but when he heard the people say she was the greatest beauty in twelve kingdoms, he had to believe, willy-nilly, that there was something in it, and he did not want to be unjust to Mike by the Stove, who had taken so much trouble to find her. Question: Why did the cook put on Mike by the Stove's smock? Answer: The king would think she was the princess.
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: Why were there twice as many people as there were on the first day? Answer: They were all waiting till they would see the champion coming.
Context: Things went on this way for some time, and Pinkel every day rose in the royal favour. At length the envy of his brothers became so great that they could bear it no longer, and consulted together how best they might ruin his credit with the king. Question: What did the two eldest brothers do when they could bear their envy no longer? Answer: consulted together how best they might ruin his credit with the king
Context: He returned, and inquired whether his grandfather had put up the poles and made the fire. Another day the young man went out to see what there was, within a day's hunt, that was curious; and on entering the woods he heard a voice calling out to him, "Come here, you destined wearer of the White Feather. Question: What did the voice say the boy was destined to be? Answer: wearer of the White Feather
Context: The next morning, when they awoke, the sun was high in heaven, and shone brightly through the leaves. So when they found a little stream flowing smoothly over its pebbles, the brother was going to drink of it; but the sister heard how it said in its rushing,      "He a tiger will be who drinks of me,     Who drinks of me a tiger will be!" Question: Why did the brother want to find a brook? Answer: He was thirsty.
Context: She wept still more, and her eyes sunk down in the depths of the waters, and became two precious pearls. But the water bore her up, as if she sat in a swing, and she flew in the rocking waves to the shore on the opposite side. Question: Why couldn't the mother see the house? Answer: she wept her eyes out
Context: Then she began to say that the schoolmaster was such a strong and able man, and finally, that she and her daughter would like to have him for priest, and whether he would not stay and succeed the old father. When the schoolmaster heard that, he said that even though he had the necessary scholarship, he doubted very much that he had the right vocation, and since this was a most important matter for him and for them, it would be unwise to act too hurriedly, so he would ask for a year to think it over. Question: Why did the wife and her daughter say they would like to have the schoolmaster for priest? Answer: The schoolmaster was such a strong and able man.
Context: While the monkey and the hare wrestled, the deer called out encouragingly or shouted warnings to each of them as the hare or the monkey pushed each other near the edge of the platform and were in danger of falling over. So the monkey and the hare, encouraged by their friends, tried their very hardest to beat each other. Question: Who won the match? Answer: the hare
Context: The lad carefully observed the command, and lay with his face covered, calmly awaiting the approach of the spirit which was to decide his good or evil fortune for all the days of his life. To these glowing words of promise and glory the boy never replied, but he lay without the least sign of discontent or murmuring until the ninth day, when he addressed his father as follows:  "My father, my dreams forbode evil. Question: Why did Iadilla's dreams forbade evil? Answer: He had fasted for nine days.
Context: But Lisa took a raspberry leaf, swept the worm carefully on to the leaf and carried it out into the yard. Then Aina noticed that a sparrow sitting on the fence was just ready to pounce on the poor little worm, so she took up the leaf, carried it out into the wood and hid it under a raspberry bush where the greedy sparrow could not find it. Question: What did Lisa do with the worm? Answer: took a raspberry leaf, swept the worm carefully on to the leaf and carried it out into the yard
Context: Perhaps you think that Miss Muffet, surrounded by every luxury and with a dozen servants to wait upon her, was happy and contented; but such was not the case. So Miss Muffet became sullen and irritable, and scolded everyone about her, and lived a very unhappy life. Question: What did Miss Muffet do because she was not allowed to do what she wanted? Answer: became sullen and irritable, and scolded everyone about her, and lived a very unhappy life
Context: So the cock ran to the bride and said,  "Bride, give me some red silk; the brook wants me to give him some red silk; I want him to give me some water, for the hen lies yonder choking with a big nut stuck in her throat." And the cock was so grieved that he cried aloud, and all the beasts came and lamented for the hen; and six mice built a little waggon, on which to carry the poor hen to her grave, and when it was ready they harnessed themselves to it, and the cock drove. Question: What had happened to the hen by the time that the cock has arrived? Answer: The hen had choked in the meanwhile, and lay there dead.
Context: ONE morning Lucinda and Jane had gone out for a drive in the doll's perambulator. Presently there was a little scuffling, scratching noise in a corner near the fireplace, where there was a hole under the skirting-board. Question: Who was making the scratching noise near the fireplace? Answer: Tom Thumb and his wife, Hunca Munca
Context: "Oh, no, I am not at all lonely," said the hare, "but as it was such a fine day I came out here to enjoy myself. Then the hare said:  "Mr. Crocodile, you live in the sea and I live on this island. Question: Why did the crocodile think there were more crocodiles than hares? Answer: There are many crocodiles around the world.
Context: That day the maiden again sat beneath the windows of the castle, and wound her golden reel. And that evening when the princess came to him with his night-cap, the prince pretended to drink it. Then, when the maiden came in, the prince was awake, and she had to tell him just how she had found the castle. Question: Why had the prince been asleep when the princess came in? Answer: The princess had been tricking him.
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. He has been expecting you for ages, but you need have no fear if you will only follow my advice. 'Well, you certainly are a splendid workman,' he said to the Prince. ' I see you are very clever with your hands, now I must see if you are equally accomplished with your head. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: Why did Hyacinthia help the Prince on all of his tasks? Answer: She loved him.
Context: Hurry home at once to arrange your affairs and save what you can!" All that he possessed in the way of treasures, clothes and jewels, he removed from the house. Question: What did the man remove from his house? Answer: his treasures, clothes and jewels
Context: And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door was open, and from within there was heard a low, pleasant frizzling, like that which is heard when one whisks yellow batter with a wooden ladle into a hot frying-pan. When His angel is your guide,                Little Lasse, Lasse,           Then no harm can e'er betide,           Even on the other side                Where the wild beasts wander. Question: Why didn't Little Lasse want to go to Polynesia? Answer: He wanted to eat pancakes.
Context: shrieked Moti, and ran up and, just as the tiger, in astonishment, dropped a bone--whack! Men gathered in groups talking and exclaiming, and finding fault with the innkeeper for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai, and all the while the innkeeper was just as troubled as the rest, and none dared go near the place where the tiger stood blinking miserably on everyone, and where Moti lay stretched out snoring like thunder. Question: What did Moti do after he saw the tiger eat his horse? Answer: attacked the tiger
Context: There was a witch woman in that country whose name was "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan." She knew, too, that with the coming of the new faith trouble would come upon the fairy folk, and their power and their great majesty would depart from them, and men would call them demons, and would drive them out with psalm-singing and with the saying of prayers, and with the sound of little tinkling bells. Question: What would happen to the fairy folk's power and great majesty with the coming of the new faith? Answer: Their power and their great majesty would depart from them.
Context: Now it was just dinner time, so they all had a dinner of raspberries and cream. ' Be careful with the sugar, Otto,' said the big sister; but Otto's plate was like a snowdrift in winter, with just a little red under the snow. Question: What did the siblings eat for dinner? Answer: raspberries and cream
Context: When Pryderi heard of it, he was very wroth, and wished to stay and fight. Question: What craft did Manawyddan want to follow next? Answer: make shields
Context: Maidwa was borne gently along but a little way above their heads; and as they followed him, the rush and hum of the people was like the dead beating of the surges upon a lake shore after a storm. In a moment Maidwa came past with rustling wings, and as he flew by, giving the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp, his limbs extended and quivered in an agony, the scalp adhered, and Maidwa, in his own person, walked into the lodge and sat down, feeling perfectly at home. Question: Why did the magician place his head outside the lodge as soon as he head the ka-kak cry? Answer: He remembered the instructions of Maidwa.
Context: 'My dear,' said she to her husband, when she was beginning to recover, 'I think I'd feel better if I was to see my father and mother and sisters once more. She rang the bell, and in a short time she had her mother and father and married sisters about her, and they laughed till they cried for joy at finding her safe back again. Question: Where was the youngest princess after she woke up? Answer: her own old chamber in her father's palace
Context: THERE was once a proud teapot; it was proud of being porcelain, proud of its long spout, proud of its broad handle. But it did not talk of its lid, which was cracked and riveted; these were defects, and one does not talk of one's defects, for there are plenty of others to do that. Question: what did others talk about? Answer: the lid's imperfections
Context: As he opened his eyes, in a dreamy way, he saw the kettle near him. The fire flickered, and made light and shadow; but nowhere was Wassamo to be seen. Question: What did the cousin believe Wassamo was doing when he could not find him? Answer: gone out again to visit the nets
Context: "I want to find the lodge with the wicked young women in it, who slay travellers and steal their trappings," answered Ko-ko. Have you any bones about the house; for I suppose I shall have to climb that tree." Question: How did Ko-ko initially react to the news that the wicked young women were dead? Answer: confused
Context: "You can stand on the runner of my sledge," said the man, "for I have a horse that covers a mile in twelve steps." He could not tell exactly where it was, but when they began to hurry on again, he thought that he spied a skull on a pole. Question: Why was the man walking very fast? Answer: He was in a hurry.
Context: And what had happened to her sister happened to her, she had to seat herself, and could not get up again. This he wished to have, and promised he would release her from the chair if she would give it to him. The hat he must have, but the old witch would not part with it, since it was her Three-Sisters Hat, and if she gave it away she would be thoroughly unhappy. Question: What was the comrade searching for in all the closets and drawers? Answer: a ball of golden twine
Context: 'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given, and to whom they belong. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story, and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see. Question: Why was the younger brother angry at the judge's verdict? Answer: He lost money.
Context: They then took an affectionate leave of each other, Wassamo enjoining it upon his cousin, at risk of his life, to not look back when he had once started to return. Accordingly he at once dispatched his pipe-bearer and confidential aid to summon various Spirits of his acquaintance, and set the time for them to come. Question: How did the old Sand-Spirit feel when he saw Wassamo and his wife? Answer: delighted
Context: Two or three days later the master said to him: 'The Porcelain Maiden is here: but, though she is as lovely as the dawn, she is so wicked that she scratches everyone that approaches her. When the youth entered the room where she was, the Golden Blackbird broke forth into a joyful song, and the Porcelain Maiden sang too, and jumped for joy. Question: Who told the entire truth? Answer: the Porcelian Maiden
Context: "Good-day, Pig Snig," said the pancake, and began to roll as fast as ever it could. You need not hurry so, for we can keep each other company going through the forest and take our time, for it is said to be haunted." Question: What was the forest said to be? Answer: haunted
Context: And when he came to an inn he made a halt, and in the joy of his heart ate up all the food he had brought with him, dinner and supper and all. It was now near the middle of the day, and the sun grew hotter and hotter. Question: What did Hans buy with his last two farthings? Answer: a half a glass of beer
Context: "My sister there is a manito at each of the four corners of the earth. When the winds blow from the four corners of the earth, you must then go. Question: Why did Dais-Imid say the giant manito that lived deep in the earth was wicked? Answer: The giant manito tried to drown him in the kettle.
Context: Sylvia was glad to have leisure to think, for she could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself, and the time was drawing very near. By degrees I wearied of what had so delighted me at first, especially as I perceived more and more plainly that it is impossible to be constantly smart and amusing without being frequently ill-natured, and too apt to turn all things, even the most serious, into mere occasions for a brilliant jest.' Question: Why was the Fairy pleased with herself? Answer: She brought Sylvia up so well.
Context: The witch hesitated, but he ordered his servants to seize her and thrust her into the stream. "That woman did not understand her business," continued Si-Men, "or else she would have been back long ago!" Question: What happened to the witch when she went to the river-god's castle? Answer: She did not come back.
Context: 'My dear,' said she to her husband, when she was beginning to recover, 'I think I'd feel better if I was to see my father and mother and sisters once more. She rang the bell, and in a short time she had her mother and father and married sisters about her, and they laughed till they cried for joy at finding her safe back again. Question: How did the youngest princess's family feel after they saw her again? Answer: happy
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We had not long been there when we perceived a rough, tall, huge giant approaching us. We proceeded to the house, before which spread a lawn upon which were two fountains. I do not reside here, but having conceived a wonderful love for you, O Fionn, on account of your superiority in wisdom and general celebrity, I therefore put those things into the way before you in order that I might see you. Accordingly we did so, and when we awoke in the morning we found ourselves on the summit of Cairn Feargaill, with our hounds and arms by us. So there is the meaning of the byword, 'The hospitality of Fionn in the house of Cuanna,' O Conan, said Fionn. Question: What will happen if someone drinks the draught while telling a lie? Answer: One will find it sweet but it becomes bitter at the last.
Context: 'If you don't, my man, I shall just give you a shake, and one slap of my wing, and send you down to the ground, where every bone in your body will be smashed as small as a drop of dew on a cabbage-leaf in the morning.' ' Why, then, I'm in a fine way,' said I to myself, 'ever to have come along with the likes of you'; and so, giving him a hearty curse in Irish, for fear he'd know what I said, I got off his back with a heavy heart, took hold of the reaping-hook and sat down upon the moon, and a mighty cold seat it was, I can tell you that. Question: What did the eagle say Daniel robbed? Answer: the eagle's nest last year
Context: It is not remarkably interesting, but for once you may as well listen to it. It was this very evening at its post for the last time, giving light to the street. Question: Is the street lamp young or old? Answer: old
Context: And the Porcelain Maiden agreed to follow him, and after having given up her clothes, the young man bought a small horse for her, which went like the wind. The little hare brought them both back to seek for the Golden Blackbird, and when they drew near to the castle where it lived the little hero said to the young man:  'Now, do be a little sharper than you were before, and you will manage to carry off both the Golden Blackbird and the Porcelain Maiden. Question: What did the young man buy for The Porcelain Maiden? Answer: a small horse
Context: "He surely is a kind master," said the king's son to himself, walked up and down the room, and whistled and sang. We have no such expensive soup at home," said the king's son, "but the main thing is, how does it taste?" Question: How did the king's son feel about the kettles? Answer: intrigued
Context: Squirrels who bury their nuts in the ground lose more than half, because they cannot remember the place. There were several sorts of little birds, twittering different songs. Question: Why did squirrels who bury their nuts in the ground lose more than half of the nuts? Answer: because they cannot remember the place
Context: When he had made his way far into the Fjoll, he saw a girl driving sheep and goats across a mountain-top. But when he reached the top of the mountain, the girl had vanished, as well as her flock, and all he saw was a great pack of bears. Question: Who did Per Gynt see while hunting? Answer: a girl driving sheep and goats across a mountain-top
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: Why did the old man tell the Prince to remind his father about the debt? Answer: the time has long passed since it was due
Context: "Ah, woe to me," he said to himself, "for no fault of mine own this crafty stranger has laid some harmful charm upon me, and in this awful guise will I remain for the rest of my natural life." For some reason or other they seemed to be very sad, and moved gently about the hall, talking quietly and mournfully to one another, or lay sadly upon the sandy floor, wiping big tears from their eyes with their soft furry fins. Question: Why were the seals sad? Answer: A seal was injured.
Context: At the time when the animals reigned in the earth, they had killed all the people but a girl and her little brother. You must hide yourself, and you will soon see the snow-birds come and pick the worms out of the logs which I have piled up. Question: Why did the girl make her brother a bow and arrows? Answer: so he could shoot snow birds and bring them home
Context: Bessie played on; and the four elders stood in a huddled but silent and amazed group, listening to the music and waiting for the sound of the dinner gong. Mrs. Bostwick, still intently listening to her precocious daughter, without thinking what she did, took the remaining piece, which was the white one, and slowly devoured it. Question: What will Mr. Bostwick do after he eats the bonbon? Answer: sing
Context: 'You have told me what I wanted to know,' cried the Fairy, 'but alas! Accordingly the butterflies whisked her off, and set her down in quite a strange kingdom. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' Question: What happened after Sylvia sent a message to the fairy begging to be sent for? Answer: Sylvia was allowed to return.
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: What did the king and queen want to do after the prince asked for their approval for his marriage? Answer: told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately
Context: After a while Paul decided to go to the castle and herd the king's hares. He was at once taken into service, but the hares all ran away across the hills, though he pursued them, and worked away like a shepherd dog in the sun, and when he came back to the castle in the evening minus his hares, there stood the king with the knife in his hand, cut three broad strips from his back, rubbed in pepper and salt, and flung him into the snake-pit. Question: Why did Paul laugh at the old woman? Answer: He found it very amusing.
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: Where did the man make a nest? Answer: in the top of the parlour chimney
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: Why did the small woman appear? Answer: The poor man ruined her home.
Context: Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Indeed, they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro. Question: Why did the old man and his wife lavish all their affection on Shiro? Answer: They had no child.
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: What hung over Conn's head? Answer: a canopy of bright bronze
Context: Your kindness and bravery of heart have restored me to my former shape. The magician, to the deep regret of Maidwa, never once alluded to the Red Swan in all their conferences. Question: How did Maidwa feel when the magician never alluded to the Red Swan? Answer: regret
Context: 'Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: What must the Prince do to the palace the next day? Answer: go all round it, giving a tap here and there on the walls to look as if he had just finished it
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What happened after the girl used her wounded arm? Answer: She found her baby.
Context: But his chief pastime was to listen to the voices of the travelers who passed by the window at the side of the lodge where they made their requests for comfortable weather and an easy journey. As the spring-light of the first day of spring shone into the lodge, the whole family arose and went about the affairs of the day as though they had been slumbering only for a single night. Question: Why was Wassamo rewarded by the Old Spirit? Answer: Wassamo had been very patient with the Old Spirit's long absence.
Context: Once Tsin Schi Huang was making a progress through the country. When he came to the plain of Bo Lang, Dschang Liang armed his people with iron maces in order to kill him. Question: Why wasn't Dschang Liang able to kill Tsin Schi Huang? Answer: Dschang Liang and his followers met the decoy wagon.
Context: This man's name was Ko-ko, the Owl; and hearing much of the wonderful achievements of the Wearer of the Ball, Ko-ko put on a big look, and announced that he was going to do something extraordinary himself. He would have taken away Onwee's war-club too, if he could have carried it; but although he was twice the size and girth of Onwee, he had not the strength to lift it; so he borrowed a club from an old chief, who was purblind, and mistook Ko-ko for his brother who was a brave man; and raising a terrible tumult with his voice, and a great dust with his heels, Ko-ko set out. Question: Why didn't Ko-ko take Onwee's war-club? Answer: He had not the strength to lift it.
Context: If you had only held out until the end of the year, I would have been delivered. I have a step-mother who has cast a spell on me, so that by day I am a bear, and at night a human being. Question: Who cast the spell on the bear? Answer: his step-mother
Context: Therefore Notscha's mother sent him to the rear of the house to keep out of his father's sight. Notscha disappeared and went to his master, in order to ask him what he should do when the dragon returned. Question: Who came to punish Notscha's parents? Answer: all the Dragon Kings of the four seas
Context: As soon as they had sat down on the white mats, the father opened a bamboo basket that he had brought in with him, and took out a beautiful doll and a lacquer box full of cakes. She then put out her hand just like a little maple leaf with its eager wide-spread fingers to take the doll and the box, both of which, coming from the capital, were prettier than anything she had ever seen. Question: What did the father use to hold the doll and cakes? Answer: a bamboo basket
Context: The customers came in crowds every day and bought quantities, especially the toffee customers. But there was always no money; they never paid for as much as a pennyworth of peppermints. Question: Why did Pickles and Ginger have to eat their own goods? Answer: There was always no money.
Context: Take her up before you on your horse, and ride into town and marry her. So the wedding was celebrated, and when the dishes made the round, the bridegroom went out into the room where the table had been set for the old folk from the mountain. Question: Why did the bride beg one of the bridesmaids to stand close behind her? Answer: so that no one could see her tail fall off when the priest joined their hands
Context: She did not put any more nuts into the woodpecker's hole, because she had always doubted how they could be got out again. "I am sure I beg your pardon; I did not not know that anybody lived here," said Mrs. Goody Tiptoes; "but where is Chippy Hackee? Question: Why did Goody Tiptoes never put any nuts into the woodpecker's hole? Answer: because she had always douted how they could be got out again
Context: The spring passed, and it was the eve of St. John, or Midsummer Day. But Marie was afraid; she could not tell why, only she could not bear the child to go. Question: Where did Snowflake go to play with the young girls? Answer: the woods
Context: Soon after, the goblin was waked in the middle of the night by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors and by the sound of the watchman's horn. The huckster's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket, that she might save something at least. Question: Where was the fire? Answer: on the whole street
Context: The governor then led the Prince to a wild and extensive plain where the grass grew high and in great abundance. Quite ignorant that the governor had laid a trap for him with the desire to compass his death, the Prince began to ride hard and hunt down the deer, when all of a sudden to his amazement he saw flames and smoke bursting out from the bush in front of him. Question: What did Yamato see when he tried to retreat? Answer: Even there the prairie was on fire.
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. " Maidwa, that he might meet his brothers, rescued two of the magic arrows from the water; and although the third was borne off, he had a hope yet to recover that too, and to be master of the swan. He passed on, and when he emerged from the forest, the sun was just falling below the edge of the sky. Question: How will Maidwa feel when the arrows strike the bird? Answer: proud
Context: Now it happened that the cat and dog met each other on their travels. Though they had not been the best of friends at home, they were quite glad to meet among strangers. Question: How does the fox respond to the cat and the dog? Answer: describes that as the way of the world
Context: "It's quite clear that they love each other," said the little Page, "as clear as crystal!" The little Princess had never seen a firework in her life, so the King had given orders that the Royal Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage. Question: Why did the King give orders that the Royal Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage? Answer: The little Princess had never seen a firework in her life.
Context: When they came ashore, Murmur sent to the king, and had him told to have the sword fetched; but though the king sent four horses, they could not move it from the spot. But when Murmur asked for more work, he told him to travel to his troll's castle, where no one dared go, and to remain there until he had built a bridge across the sound, so that people could cross. Question: What was Murmur to do at the troll's castle? Answer: remain there until he had built a bridge across the sound so that people could cross
Context: So the Swallow flew over the great city, and saw the rich making merry in their beautiful houses, while the beggars were sitting at the gates. "I am covered with fine gold," said the Prince, "you must take it off, leaf by leaf, and give it to my poor; the living always think that gold can make them happy." Question: How did the Happy Prince plan to help the poor? Answer: He told the swallow to give his gold feathers to the poor.
Context: The old woman now ran into the little room and brought out from the cupboard the big peach. When the old man looked at the peach he was greatly astonished and said:  "This is indeed the largest peach I have ever seen! Question: Why did the old man want to eat the peach? Answer: He was hungry.
Context: The deer with long horns and the hare with long ears, it must have been an amusing sight to those who watched this queer match. In this way, sometimes the one, sometimes the other, conquering, the little party amused themselves till they were tired. Question: Why did all the animals wonder how they could cross the stream? Answer: They did not know how to swim.
Context: I hear horses' hoofs behind us,' said Hyacinthia to the Prince. The Magician's servants hurried after the fresh tracks, but when they came to the bridge, they stood, not knowing which road to take, as the footprints stopped suddenly, and there were three paths for them to choose from. Question: What did Hyacinthia turned herself into? Answer: a river
Context: After they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. One day they agreed to kill each a male of that kind of animal, which each was most expert in hunting, for the purpose of making quivers from their skins. Question: What will happen to the quivers once they are prepared? Answer: They will be straightway filled with arrows.
Context: And now her two sisters found her to be that fine, beautiful lady whom they had seen at the ball. Cinderella, who was no less good than beautiful, gave her two sisters lodgings in the palace, and that very same day matched them with two great lords of the Court. Question: What did Cinderella do for her sisters after she got married? Answer: gave her two sisters lodgings in the palace and matched them with two great lords of the Court
Context: She cleared the three miles of fire at a leap, and asked if he were riding, and he said he was. She consumed them, and said to him there were before them three miles of hill covered with steel thistles, and that she must clear it. They went on, and she went not far before she told him to give her a meal, and he gave her the bread and the bottleful. Question: Where did Brown Allree arrive at after she went over three miles of sea with a leap? Answer: the land of the King of France
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Who had a beard so long it reached below his knees? Answer: Kojata
Context: I do not believe she told them every last thing there was to tell. And this grieved her, for she did want to see him so very much, and she was alone through the day, and it was very dreary and lonely. Question: What did the bear foretell? Answer: The mother wanted to talk to her daughter alone.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant who lived in Telemarken, and had a big farm; yet he had nothing but bad luck with his cattle, and at last lost his house and holding. Then he knew very well that this must be one of the underground people; yet he had no fear, but invited his neighbor in to drink a glass with him, and the neighbor seemed to enjoy it. Question: Who was the man to the peasant? Answer: a neighbor
Context: When he reached the sound, the river was full of drifting ice, and it roared like a waterfall. When he had warmed himself and satisfied his hunger, he wanted to sleep; but a tumult and rumbling started, as though the whole castle were to be turned upside down. Question: What did Murmur see when the gate flew wide open? Answer: nothing but a pair of yawning jaws that reached from the threshold to the top of the door.
Context: Yes," said the man, "for I have to buy the first thing that comes my way." " I don't even know whether I ought to show it to you; but I bought the first thing to be had, and that was a pup," said he. " Question: How much did the old woman want for the basket? Answer: four shillings
Context: "He surely is a kind master," said the king's son to himself, walked up and down the room, and whistled and sang. We have no such expensive soup at home," said the king's son, "but the main thing is, how does it taste?" Question: What was different about the second and third kettle? Answer: The second kettle turned his hair into silver.
Context: In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife. The nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent. Question: Why did the couple want to find a job? Answer: They wanted plenty of food to eat.
Context: The bear being the biggest and the oldest, answered for the others:  "That will be great fun," said she. " I am the strongest animal, so I will make the platform for the wrestlers." Question: Who was the strongest animal? Answer: the bear
Context: Prince Toyonari, after some weeks, came home, and was told by his wife that his daughter Hime had done something wrong and had run away for fear of being punished. One day, trying to forget his terrible worry, he called all his men together and told them to make ready for a several days' hunt in the mountains. Question: Why did Prince Toyonari call his men together for a hunt? Answer: to forget his terrible worry
Context: There was once upon a time a man and his wife who had an old cat and an old dog. I've quite made up my mind that the next time I see her, I shall put her in the water.' Question: What does Simon decide to do to the cat? Answer: to drown her
Context: Perhaps she did not know herself, for everyone had called her "Miss Muffet" since she could remember. Mrs. Muffet would say, at times, "By the way, Nurse, how is Miss Muffet getting along?" Question: Why did no one know the name Little Miss Muffet was christened by? Answer: Everyone had called her "Miss Muffet" since she could remember.
Context: As soon as the first buds of spring appeared, and the delicious fragrance of the young year began to sweeten the air, his father, with the help of his younger brothers, built for Wunzh the customary little lodge. After he had become too weak to walk about, and confined himself strictly to the lodge, he recalled these thoughts, and turning them in his mind, he wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to his father and family, and to all others of his fellow-creatures. Question: Where was Wunzh's customary little lodge? Answer: at a retired sport at some distance from their own
Context: "Now you have delivered me," said he, "for the old woman, with whom you and your master have been dealing, is a witch, and she turned me into a lizard, and my brother and sister into a dog and cat." She was actually on the way to throw us into the sea and drown us; but if any one were to appear and want to buy us, she had to sell us for four shillings apiece, that had been agreed upon. Question: Why was the youth to be rewarded? Answer: He saved the prince and his siblings.
Context: And all good children to whom he related this story, took great heed of this naughty Cupid; but he made fools of them still, for he is astonishingly cunning. When the young maidens come from being examined by the clergyman, or go to church to be confirmed, there he is again close behind them. Question: Why does cupid dress up like a student? Answer: so he can be sneaky
Context: One day the two brothers began to look dark upon Maidwa, and to reproach him for having taken from the medicine-sack their deceased father's magic arrows; they upbraided him especially that one was lost. They asked him what he came for, how he had descended, and why he was so bold as to visit the abode of the dead. Question: Why did the two brothers begin to look dark upon Maidwa? Answer: Maidwa took from the medicine-sack their deceased father's magic arrows, especially that one was lost.
Context: When Onwee swung around, with the great force and weight of the club with which he had dispatched the brother of the two wicked women, he found himself in a large village, surrounded by a great crowd of people. With one exception only, Onwee Bahmondang had the hearty praises of all the people. Question: How will the village feel about Onwee killing the brother of the two wicked women? Answer: happy
Context: This brave warrior was always followed by a band of faithful knights. One evening as the five knights sat at a feast quaffing SAKE in their rice bowls and eating all kinds of fish, raw, and stewed, and broiled, and toasting each other's healths and exploits, the first knight, Hojo, said to the others: Question: Who was a brave warrior always followed by? Answer: a band of faithful knights
Context: I vowed that I would follow the Green Knight," he replied, "and I will carry out my vow, even if the venture leadeth me close to the nethermost world." He walked through their ranks till he came to the middle of the Circle; and there, seated at a table of red marble, was the Knight whom he had come so far to seek, clad in his grass-green robes. Question: What did the goblins do as Early Gregory started to walk into the Circle? Answer: shouted louder than ever, and danced more madly, and sang more lustily
Context: The pheasant, who was all this time fighting hard, saw Momotaro and his little band rush in at the back. Some of the devils fell off the parapet of the castle and were dashed to pieces on the rocks beneath; others fell into the sea and were drowned; many were beaten to death by the three animals. Question: Why were the devils bewildered? Answer: The four enemies fought like a hundred.
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: Why was Conchubar making a feast? Answer: for the marriage of his sister Dechtire with Sualtim, son of Roig
Context: On the following day the clerk passed by the Master Girl's little house. Then she asked him to shut the house-door, which she said she had forgotten to do. All grinned and stared at the clerk, for he ran like a madman, and looked worse than if a ram had been butting him all night long. Question: What did the clerk do because he was in such a hurry to leave? Answer: forgot his sacksful of money and his wish to marry
Context: cried she, and stretched her hands out over a little blue crocus, that hung quite sickly on one side. " All at once an icy cold rushed through the great hall, and the blind mother could feel that it was Death that came. " Question: Who returns to the greenhouse? Answer: Death
Context: Li Dsing was much frightened, and thought it was an apparition. When Li Dsing saw the child he took pity on him and did not slay him, while his wife began to love the boy dearly. Question: Why did the Taoist priest want to take Notscha as his pupil? Answer: The Taoist priest wanted to gentle his savage ways.
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. There was no one but an old hag, tall and frightful, and she asked me, "What sort of person are you?" "I have nothing, but there are eight young lads and three young women, as handsome as anyone laid eyes on, and if you cure him I will give you them." She brought me into a room, so that I saw him, and his arm was swelled up to the shoulder. Question: How did the man know the old hag's son was the one that took the child? Answer: When the man was a dog, he bit the man's hand.
Context: said the Prince, looking round on the flames and the smoke that crackled and rolled in towards him on every side. " Now the Prince ascribed his escape entirely to the virtue of the sword of Murakumo, and to the protection of Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess of Ise, who controls the wind and all the elements and insures the safety of all who pray to her in the hour of danger. To this day there is a spot along the great Tokaido railway named Yaidzu, which is said to be the very place where this thrilling event took place. Question: Why did Yamato rename the sword to the Grass-Cleaving Sword? Answer: He used the sword to cut the grass.
Context: The hunter's son followed, and having come to the tree, he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part. Suddenly again the youngest said, "Your father is coming, I must leave." "Yes," the boy answered, "I was very lonesome, and I ran round and round--that is the cause of it." The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. Question: Why did the beautiful boy say he had to leave whenever the hunter was coming? Answer: The beautiful boy did not want to be seen by the hunter.
Context: said Murmur Goose-Egg, when he had reached the royal castle, and he flung down the knapsack full of money before the king, so that the whole castle tottered. The king thanked him kindly, and promised him a good reward, and a good character, if he wanted it; but Murmur only wanted more work to do. Question: What did the hill-troll do? Answer: robbed the king of the sword of his ancestors
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: What happened because Kojata was in constant dread of his child being taken away from him? Answer: Poor Kojata knew no rest night or day.
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: Why did the old man bring back the younger brother? Answer: informed him that he was now his only heir, and would inherit all his lands and money, and that he was to come and live at home, and to help manage the property
Context: But Bokwewa watched closely every word that fell from her lips, and often forgot, like her, all mortal appetite and care of the body, in conferring with her, and noting what she had to say of spirits and fairies, of stars, and streams that never ceased to flow, and the delight of the happy hunting-grounds, and the groves of the blessed. One day Kwasynd had gone out as usual, and Bokwewa was sitting in the lodge, on the opposite side to his brother's wife, when she suddenly exclaimed:  "I must leave you," as a tall young man, whose face was like the sun in its brightness, entered, and taking her by the hand he led her to the door. Question: Where did the woman and her companion vanish to? Answer: heaven
Context: "As you choose," said the youth, "but then it will be my turn." answered the shepherd and he shot a sharp arrow against the giant's body with his bow. Question: What did the shepherd do as he answered the giant? Answer: shot a sharp arrow against the giant's body with his bow
Context: ONCE on a time the cock and the hen went to the nut mountain, and they agreed beforehand that whichever of them should find a nut was to divide it with the other. So the cock ran as fast as he could to the brook, and said, "Brook, give me some water, the hen is up yonder choking with a big nut stuck in her throat." Question: What did the brook order the cock to do? Answer: run to the bride and ask her for some red silk
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: For many days with this intention I have waited on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent-dragon that you saw, in the hope that some strong brave man would come along. You are the first man I have found able to look at me without fear, so I knew at once that you were a man of great courage. Question: Why did the Dragon King wait on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent-dragon? Answer: in hope that some strong brave man would come along
Context: Once Tsin Schi Huang was making a progress through the country. When he came to the plain of Bo Lang, Dschang Liang armed his people with iron maces in order to kill him. Question: Where did Tsin Schi Huang go after making progress through the country? Answer: the plain of Bo Lang
Context: A wooden wand is always kept before her holy picture in the cabin. But a storm is always near Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: What did the giant carry? Answer: an iron fork
Context: But the young man, with the quickness of a bird, had flown to the top of the lodge and perched himself on the highest pole, having been changed into a beautiful robin red-breast. He looked down upon his father with pity beaming in his eyes, and addressed him as follows: Question: What happened after the old man broke in? Answer: The young man, with the quickness of a bird, flew to the top of the lodge and perched himself on the highest pole.
Context: Suddenly he heard a laugh It was double, or the one must be the perfect echo of the other. To Wassamo there appeared to be two persons at no great distance. His cousin seemed lost to all earthly sense and sound; for he lay unmoved, smiling, in the calm light of the moon. Question: Who were the two persons Wassamo saw at no great distance? Answer: two beautiful young females
Context: "Now father has gone, you and I must take care of everything till he comes back," said the mother, as she made her way back to the house. "Yes, I will be very good," said the child, nodding her head, "and when father comes home please tell him how good I have been. Question: What did the mother ask the father to bring back? Answer: a doll
Context: "It is also vain for you to wish to become a hermit, or to find the Elixir of Life. The angel disappeared as soon as he had finished speaking, and Sentaro took the lesson to heart. Question: Why was the Elixir of Life not for Sentaro? Answer: His life was not austere enough.
Context: All that day the man lay in bed, and whenever his wife entered the room and asked him, with a shake of the head, how he felt, he always replied that he was getting worse. At last, in the evening, she burst into tears, and when he inquired what was the matter, she sobbed out:  'Oh, my poor, poor husband, are you really dead? Question: What occurred when the wife mourned after the husband's fake death? Answer: a cold shiver when through his body and he was well
Context: Meanwhile Earl Gregory rode on and on, ever following in the wake of the Knight in green, over moor, and burn, and moss, till he came to the most desolate region that he had ever been in in his life; where the wind blew cold, as if from snow-fields, and where the hoar-frost lay thick and white on the withered grass at his feet. These weird Goblins were shouting and singing as they danced, and waving their arms above their heads, and throwing themselves about on the ground, for all the world as if they had gone mad; and when they saw Earl Gregory halt on his horse just outside the Ring they beckoned to him with their skinny fingers. Question: Why did Earl Gregory obeyed the eldrich summons? Answer: There was a spell casted over him.
Context: So soon as the crocodiles understood that this was a trick played upon them by the hare so as to enable him to cross the sea, and that the hare was now laughing at them for their stupidity, they became furiously angry and made up their minds to take revenge. When the crocodiles had pulled out the last bit of fur, they threw the poor hare on the beach, and all swam away laughing at what they had done. Question: Why was the hare unable to run away as fast as he could? Answer: some of the crocodiles ran after the hare and caught him
Context: There was a man called Odshedoph, or the Child of Strong Desires, who had a wife and one son. Early in the evening he returned with a deer, and, being weary and athirst, he asked his son, whom he called Strong Desire, to go to the river for some water. Question: Why was the son afraid to go to the river for some water? Answer: It was dark.
Context: "Well, I like all this," said both the Englishmen; "always going down the hill and yet always merry. Yes, it always pays best when the wife sees and maintains that her husband knows best and that whatever he does is right. Question: What did the peasant receive from the Englishmen? Answer: a hundredweight of gold
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: What did one of the guards do? Answer: drove his bagnet half an inch or so into his side
Context: Then they allowed the waters to gather into rivers and seas, and hills and plains made their appearance. And there were sun, moon and all the stars, wind, clouds, rain, and dew. Question: How did the Wood Prince and the Mother of Metals create the human race? Answer: The Wood Prince and the Mother of Metals combined light and darkness.
Context: A day or two before the time set to take his life, he wandered sadly along the shore of the lake. He looked at the glassy water, and more than once the thought to end his griefs by casting himself in its depths, came upon him with such sudden force that it was only by severe self-control that he was able to turn his steps in another direction. Question: Where did Netawis wander? Answer: along the shore of the lake
Context: Mike by the Stove thought that things were going from bad to worse, and this was the truth, since the further he went the warmer it grew. When he had come with her to the mill-pond, and had given her water, she came completely out of the lemon. Question: What happened because Mike by the Stove was half-dead with thirst? Answer: He bite into the last lemon.
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: What happened to Dechtire after she drank the wine? Answer: fell into a deep sleep
Context: So they sailed away from the 'Land of Nod,' and in a little while Hercules and The Flea were on the shores of Asia away at the other end of the world, where the Ice Sea flows through Behring Straits into the Pacific Ocean. All around on the dreary shore there was snow and snow as far as the eye could see; little grey men in shaggy skins moved about, and drove in small sledges through the snow drifts, but the sledges were drawn by dogs. Question: What did Little Lasse and the dream-boy do when they played with each other? Answer: sailed away from the Land of Nod
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. As soon as it was daylight Prince Milan stepped out of his room, and found a palace which was quite a work of art down to the very smallest detail. Question: How many daughters did the Magician have? Answer: thirty
Context: On the morrow when he went to reap the wheat he found nothing but the bare straw. On the morrow the ears had gone, and there was nothing but the bare straw. Question: What happened after Manawyddan went to reap the wheat? Answer: found nothing but the bare straw
Context: "We'll fight about that first of all," said the goat, and butted the cat with his horns so that she rolled off the bridge, and fell into the water, and there she burst. Then they all crawled out, and each went to his own place, all whom the cat had eaten up, and were every one of them as lively as before, the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush and the fox, the sly-boots, and the hopping hare and the wild wolf and little bear brown-coat and the biting mother bear and bruin good-fellow and the bridal party on the road and the funeral procession at the church and the moon in a cloud and the sun in the sky. Question: What did everyone do after crawling out? Answer: went to his own place
Context: He told her all that had happened to him, and of the great part her keepsake had played in the success of his previous undertaking, and thanked her very heartily. When she heard that he was starting out once again to do battle with his father's enemies, she went into the temple, and reappeared bearing a sword and a beautiful bag which she had made herself, and which was full of flints, which in those times people used instead of matches for making fire. Question: What was the sword given to the Prince? Answer: the sword of Murakumo
Context: And the falcons
settled down on him, and the dogs crawled along his body. They then gathered beside him in a great throng, and
conversed with him in a strange tongue. Question: What did the king and his bodyguards do after they conversed in a strange tongue? Answer: They left the room.
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. You will soon see us lie down, and we shall not rise again till the spring. Question: What will the Island Spirit do to Wassamo if he catches him? Answer: do mischief
Context: ONCE upon a time there were five women who were standing in a field, mowing. And suddenly they saw a goose-egg of quite unheard-of size, well-nigh as large as a man's head. " Question: What did the women do because they could not agree who saw the goose-egg first? Answer: agreed that it should belong to all give of them and that all of them should sit on it
Context: But when she tried to set him down in the place where she had found him, he did not want to let her go; but clasped his arms firmly about her neck. And when she had called the third time a woman's voice replied from out of the water: "If God has forgiven him, then I, too, forgive him!" In addition she received the two dresses promised her by the tailors. Question: What happened because the girl did what Torre Jeppe asked? Answer: She found a bushel of silver coin.
Context: A little while after, the father fell ill, and sent for his sons, who were out hunting, to bid him farewell. At length he got up, and going into the garden, hid himself in some trees, and wept like a child, while his two brothers made ready for the funeral. Question: What did Jack do after going into the garden and hiding in the tress? Answer: wept like a child
Context: The proposal pleased the two others, and forthwith they started on their travels. Soon they came to a little brook, and as there was no stepping-stone, and no bridge, they could not tell how they were to get to the other side. When, however, she reached the middle, and heard the water rushing past beneath her, she was struck with terror, and stopped, and could get no farther. Question: Why did the straw stretch himself from one back to another? Answer: to allow the bean and the coal to cross the brook
Context: Then they began to eat and drink; but the girl left the hill and went home. This time she also entered, and found everything as it had been the first time, the well-spread table and the bed with the snake in it. Question: How did the girl end up back at the same hill? Answer: She could not find her cattle, lost her way, and came to the same hill.
Context: He left his boy to take care of the lodge while he was absent, hunting and roaming about from place to place, striving to forget his misfortune, and searching for the wicked Weendigo. He reached up, and having secured it, he shot it out at the opening, and immediately running out to find where it fell, he was surprised to see a beautiful boy just in the act of taking it up, and hurrying away with it to a large tree, where he disappeared. Suddenly again the youngest said, "Your father is coming, I must leave." "Yes," the boy answered, "I was very lonesome, and I ran round and round--that is the cause of it." The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. Question: Where did the beautiful boy go whenever the hunter was approaching? Answer: a hollow tree
Context: There was no water to be found, and he did not know how he was to refresh himself. The youth ran about everywhere like mad, looking for water; but there was no water there, and none to be found, and when he returned she was dead. Question: What did Mike by the Stove do because he still found nothing to refresh himself with? Answer: took another lemon and bit into it
Context: 'Dan,' says he, after a minute's thought, 'though it is very improper of you to get drunk on a Lady-day, yet, as you are a decent sober man, who tends mass well, and never fling stones at me or mine, nor cries out after one in the field, my life for yours,' says he; 'so get up on my back, and grip me well for fear you'd fall off, and I'll fly you out of the bog.' ' Upon the honour of a gentleman,' says he, putting his right foot on his breast, 'I am quite in earnest; and so now either take my offer or starve in the bog--besides I see that your weight is sinking the stone.' Question: Why did the eagle decide to help Daniel? Answer: Daniel was a decent sober man who tended mass well, and never flung stones at the eagle nor cries out after one in the field
Context: And so he took his drum, sabre, cock's feather, clasp-knife, pop-gun and air-pistol, and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves. Perhaps the very ones which killed the ram were still sitting there in a corner. Yes, it was not at all safe here, and there were no other people to be seen in the neighbourhood. Question: What did Walter do after Jonas hurt his pride? Answer: took his drum, sabre, cock's feather, clasp-knife, pop-gun and air-pistol, and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves
Context: One day he stepped forth from his tent and after walking about for a short time he came to a pond. The trees growing along the edge of the water were shedding their leaves, which floated hither and thither on the surface of the pond. Question: Why did the spider try to get on the floating leaf? Answer: It was trying to get to the other side of the pond.
Context: There once lived in Sianfu an old Buddhist monk, who loved to wander in lonely places. In the course of his wanderings he once came to the Kuku-Nor, and there he saw a tree which was a thousand feet high and many cords in breadth. Question: Who loved to wander in lonely places? Answer: an old Buddhist monk
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: Why was the king broken-hearted and melancholy? Answer: The goose could not divert him any longer.
Context: Now, there are among us human creatures certain individuals who are known as "emancipated women," as, for instance, principals of institutions, dancers who stand professionally on one leg, milliners, and sick-nurses; and with this class of emancipated women the two Maidens in the shed associated themselves. They were "maidens" among the paver folk, and determined not to give up this honorable appellation, and let themselves be miscalled "rammers." Question: what were the maidens determined not to do? Answer: give up the name "maiden"
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: What happened because Princess Terute never took the trouble to practice daily? Answer: broke down her accompaniment and had to request one of the Court ladies to take her place
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: Why did the young giant have long black hair and a short curly beard? Answer: His poor mother couldn't afford to buy razhurs.
Context: As the warrior stood in the porch taking leave, a train of fish was suddenly transformed into a retinue of men, all wearing ceremonial robes and dragon's crowns on their heads to show that they were servants of the great Dragon King. The presents that they carried were as follows:  First, a large bronze bell. Question: What did the men wear? Answer: ceremonial robes and dragon's crowns on their heads
Context: Wassamo promised obedience to these directions, and, at the appointed time, set out in company with his wife. Musing sadly, and from time to time breaking forth in mournful cries, as he walked the shore, it was his cousin that Wassamo beheld as he turned the first point of land by the lake. Question: Who did Wassamo see as he turned the first point of land by the lake? Answer: Netawis
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: What will happen after the poor man listens to the small woman? Answer: She will vanish completely.
Context: "Faith," said Finn, "beautiful; and how are you, Oonagh--and how did you sport your figure during my absence, my bilberry?" "Why, avourneen," said Finn, putting in his answer in the proper way, "never the thing but the purest of love and affection for yourself. Finn spent two or three happy days with Oonagh, and felt himself very comfortable considering the dread he had of Far Rua. Question: What did Finn always do to prophesize or know anything? Answer: clapped his thumb in his mouth
Context: The king simply could not get over the astonishment the duke had caused him. And a message came that the duke had arrived with a great retinue, all so magnificently attired that every seam of their dresses was sparkling with gold and silver. Question: How did the princess feel about the duke's arrival? Answer: excited
Context: When they awoke the sun was high in the heavens, the wood was beautiful in the summer morning, and the birds were flying about in the branches and the tree tops. At first the girls were filled with wonder when they saw that they had slept in the wood among the raspberry bushes. Question: Who did Aina believe lived among these raspberry bushes? Answer: some good fairy
Context: It happened that when the king had opened the door behind him, Moti noticed that there was a garden outside: without waiting for the king's return he began to think what could be got out of the garden small enough to be shut in the box. ' And a fruit without much scent, or else he would be afraid that I might smell it. Question: Why did Moti gaze up at the ceiling with a puzzled expression? Answer: He did not want to show that it was too easy for him.
Context: The cousin of Wassamo recovered heart, and sang once more his sad or mirthful chants, just as the humor was upon him; but he kept close by Wassamo, and watched him in all his movements. He made it a point to ask many questions of the country he came from; some of which his cousin replied to, but others were left entirely in the dark. Question: What made the sugar-harvest greater than had been ever known in all that region? Answer: Wassamo's wife help
Context: When the Princess heard this she began to cry, but it was no good; she had to keep her word. So she scraped away harder than ever, and made the hole so large that he could get out. Question: What did the Princess do when she had to keep her word? Answer: took leave of her father, put a knife in her belt, and went to the iron stove in the wood
Context: A wooden wand is always kept before her holy picture in the cabin. But a storm is always near Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: "You have come just in the nick of time," said he, "for to-morrow I am to marry the princess. She will naturally agree to this, for she does not know that you made the spots, for only Christian hands can wash them out again, but not the hands of this pack of trolls. Question: Why was the maiden there in the nick of time? Answer: Tomorrow the prince was to marry the princess.
Context: My father wished me to marry again; but I had promised to remain true to the memory of my husband, and made a vow not to comply with my father's wish. So I have plucked up courage to beg you to lend me your mercenaries so that I may beat off my foes and remain as I am. Question: How did mistress's family feel when she refused to remarry? Answer: angry
Context: I suppose I will have to go to him myself if we really are to obtain this trumpery whistle. And the following day, when Esben was once more herding his hares, the king followed him, and found him at the same place where the women had bargained with him. Question: What happened after the king followed Esben and found him? Answer: They soon became good friends.
Context: The seal catcher agreed to this, and climbed up behind the rider, who shook his bridle rein. Off the great horse galloped at such a pace that he had much ado to keep his seat. Question: What did the seal catcher do when the stranger offered to take him to a place with seals? Answer: agreed to this, and climbed up behind the rider
Context: On board a steamer I once met an elderly man, with such a merry face that, if it was really an index of his mind, he must have been the happiest fellow in creation. He had all his company with him in a large box, for he was the proprietor of a puppet-show. Question: what did the member of the Polytechnic institution do to the elderly man? Answer: tested him
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan. Question: Where was Horaizan? Answer: far away across the seas
Context: Once he was resting on his bed after dinner, when suddenly two little
knights with plumes in their helmets rode into the room. Then the fleas and gnats
began to rise in the air; but were all slain by the falcons. Shortly
after came a man clad in yellow, wearing a king's crown, who climbed
on an empty couch and seated himself there. Question: What will happen when the knights enter the room? Answer: The scholar will pretend to be asleep and watch them.
Context: "Now you can go to the devil, and fetch the tribute from him," said the king. But since he was there, he would stay there, for he had to take home the tribute, and he had plenty of time to wait. Question: Who was home when Murmur arrived at the devil's place? Answer: his grandmother
Context: On the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city, the rich one on horseback, with plenty of food in his knapsack, the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eat on the way. The lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer, who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife's birthday, and bade the rich man enter and sit down, while he himself took the horse to the stable. Question: Who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife's birthday? Answer: a farmer
Context: Very sorrowful was Manawyddan, but Pryderi was stout of heart, and bade him be of good cheer. Let us go now to seek Rhiannon, and the lands where she dwells.' Question: Who were wanderers? Answer: Manawyddan the prince and his friend Pryderi
Context: One day he sallied forth in search of adventures, for he had the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle. The monster seemed to be asleep, and as it breathed, fire and smoke came out of its nostrils. Question: Why did Tawara Toda sail forth in search of adventure? Answer: He had the nature of a warrior.
Context: Soon after sunrise next day the prince's wife was standing on a little hill behind the house, when she saw a cloud of dust coming through the town. In any case they must not discover her there; so just bidding the ring prepare some food for them, she ran inside, and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face. Question: Why did the girl bound a veil of golden gauze around her head and face? Answer: She did not want to meet her husband this way.
Context: On the wall hung a large colored print, representing the Congress of Vienna and all the kings and emperors. A clock with heavy weights hung on the wall and went "tick, tick," steadily enough; yet it was always rather too fast, which, however, the old people said was better than being too slow. Question: What sound did the clock make? Answer: tick tick
Context: Uraschimataro agreed willingly, and in another moment they were deep, deep down, with fathoms of blue water above their heads. And directly the princess beheld him her heart was set on him, and she begged him to stay with her, and in return promised that he should never grow old, neither should his beauty fade. ' Question: What will the princess do when she sees Uraschimataro? Answer: Her heart will set on him and she will beg him to stay with her.
Context: Old Mrs. Rabbit was a widow; she earned her living by knitting rabbit-wool mittens and muffetees (I once bought a pair at a bazaar). He came round the back of the fir-tree, and nearly tumbled upon the top of his Cousin Peter. Question: What was Peter dressed in? Answer: a red cotton pocket-handkerchief
Context: He found himself tucked up in a little moss bed, very much in the dark, feeling sore; it seemed to be under ground. THE Chipmunk explained that it had rained nuts through the top of the tree--"Besides, I found a few buried!" Question: What did the Chipmunk do to Timmy Tiptoes? Answer: It lent him its nightcap and the house of full of provisions.
Context: The little Pigeon-Hawk followed closely, with the duck under his wing, rejoiced and happy to think that he had something to carry home at last. He was naturally much vexed with the owl, and had no sooner delivered over the duck to his sister, the housekeeper, than he flew in the owl's face, and, venting an abundance of reproachful terms, would, in his passion, have torn the very eyes out of the White Owl's head. Question: What did Gray Eagle tell White Owl when he let him go? Answer: not to play the tyrant over those weaker than himself
Context: The next morning, when they awoke, the sun was high in heaven, and shone brightly through the leaves. So when they found a little stream flowing smoothly over its pebbles, the brother was going to drink of it; but the sister heard how it said in its rushing,      "He a tiger will be who drinks of me,     Who drinks of me a tiger will be!" Question: What did the stepmother lay a spell on? Answer: all the brooks in the forest
Context: At that moment the dragoon flung open the door, and shot off his pistol right above the maiden's head, so that she tottered and fell to the ground. Her nose was only half its original size, and her ugly cow's tail was tied back; but she was not as handsome, and any one who said so would not have been telling the truth. Question: What happened because the dragoon shot off his pistol? Answer: The maiden tottered and fell to the ground.
Context: And it seemed to her as though she knew all the people who were there. It was quite evident that they were trolls, the people from underground, and therefore he discharged his gun over the roof. Question: Who else was aware there was something uncanny about it all? Answer: the dog
Context: When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. She lay in a green opening in the midst of a thick, dark wood, and beside her lay the bundle of poor belongings she had brought from home. Question: Who sat before the hill? Answer: an old woman
Context: "AND what are those long yellow things with fingers like gloves?" "Oh, that's a pair of stockings belonging to Sally Henny-penny--look how she's worn the heels out with scratching in the yard! Question: Who does the terribly particular pocket-handkin? Answer: Tom Titmouse
Context: They searched the hall, and there was no man, and the castle, and there was none. No others were bought throughout the whole of Hereford, till the saddlers banded together and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions. Question: Why did saddlers band together to slay Manawyddan and his companions? Answer: The townsfolk only bought from Manawyddan and his companions.
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: What will happen if Jack my Hedgehog does not get what he is promised? Answer: Both the King and his daughter should pay for it with their lives.
Context: called Esben, and blew into one end of his whistle, and then they scattered the more quickly to all the ends of the earth. But when he had reached an old charcoal-pit, he blew into the other end of his whistle, and before he knew it the hares were back again, and standing in rank and file so he could review them, just like a regiment of soldiers on the drill-ground. Question: What happened when Esben first blew the whistle? Answer: The hares scattered the more quickly to all the ends of the earth.
Context: At last she pitied him, and removed the charm, and the horns dropped down on the ground, and he would have killed her on the spot, only he was as weak as water, and his fellow-servants came in and carried him up to the big house. Well, the witch's daughter heard about it too, and she came to see the strange girl; and what did she find her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper; and as she cut away, the paper became the richest silk she ever saw. Question: Why did the prince stroll down to where the youngest princess lived? Answer: He heard about what the young princess did.
Context: She looked until it came near, when she perceived that it was another Weendigo or Giant Cannibal. The son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken, and as the father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground. Question: What did the black cloud do to the wife? Answer: bore her off
Context: The magician began to feel uneasy, for he found that he had been outwitted. He then uttered the charm to his canoe, and it shot out of sight, leaving Owasso to make his peace the best way he could. Question: Why was the magician beginning to feel uneasy? Answer: He was outwitted.
Context: In fact, although it was such a small shop it sold nearly everything--except a few things that you want in a hurry--like bootlaces, hair-pins and mutton chops. Question: Who were the people that kept the shop? Answer: Ginger and Pickles
Context: And as he was sitting there in the forward cabin, he heard voices within the ship. He peered through a crack, and there were three coal-black crows sitting inside the deck-beams, and they were talking about their husbands. Question: Who did the cabin-boy see through a crack? Answer: three coal-black crows
Context: I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child where he saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. When she saw me she gave a cry out of her, and she said, "Oh, my soul to God, if the master isn't come to life again." And when the mistress heard of it, she came to see with her own eyes, for she would not believe I was there. Question: Why did the wolf scratch his child? Answer: He knew the child would grab the rod.
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: What did they discover after the mist cleared away? Answer: a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand
Context: You cannot possibly have finished before you have really begun!" Then his master saw that he had finished his work, and that one would have to handle such a strong fellow with kid gloves. Question: What did the workman do when he saw Murmur Goose-Egg had finished his work? Answer: told him to come in and eat
Context: "And you will kill hundreds more," interposed Strong Desire, in the most insinuating manner imaginable. He listened until they had found the headless body, and he heard their piercing shrieks of rage and sorrow as he took his way to the lodge of his kind adviser. Question: Why did Red Head not want to kill Strong Desire? Answer: Strong Desire was beautiful.
Context: Before the earth was separated from the heavens, all there was was a great ball of watery vapor called chaos. The third was called the Dark Lord, and he was the ruler of the water. Question: Who was the ruler of the earth? Answer: Yellow Ancient
Context: The giants used to put--each man of them--a shout of him every evening. There's some change in the caher[2] to-night," said the gentleman, when he heard the two shouts. Question: Why was the second giant unhappy with the son? Answer: The son killed the second giant's brother.
Context: A long, long time ago, a little boy was living with his sister entirely alone in an uninhabited country, far out in the north-west. As soon as he heard this, he said to his sister, "I am now a young man and very much in want of a companion;" and he asked his sister to make him several pairs of moccasins. Question: Why was the boy called the Boy that carries the Ball on his Back? Answer: He possessed supernatural powers.
Context: You have but three days more, and your term will be completed. The father addressed Iadilla as he had the day before, and promised that he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him by the dawn of the morning. Question: Why did Iadilla moan? Answer: He was hungry.
Context: When the little girl was five years old her mother fell dangerously ill and all the doctors and their medicines could not save her. If so do not grieve for me, but look upon your father's second wife as your true mother, and be obedient and filial to both her and your father. Question: What happened when the little girl was five years old? Answer: Her mother fell dangerously ill.
Context: In the meantime Finn was very melancholy, and did not know what to do, or how to act at all. Talking of pancakes, maybe we'll give him as good as any he brings with him--thunderbolts or otherwise. Question: How did Finn feel in the meantime? Answer: melancholy
Context: Her confusion changed to apprehension, her color from scarlet to white. Have you forgotten what I told you, that although she is your step-mother you must be obedient and loyal to her? Question: Why was the girl frightened by the father's severity? Answer: Never had he spoken to her in such a tone.
Context: As midnight drew nigh, he heard far away in the north, out of the mountains of Slieve Gullion, a fairy tune played, soft, low, and slow, as if on a silver flute; and at the same time the roar of Conn the Hundred-Fighter, and the voice of Gaul like thunder, and the responsive shouts of the captains, and the clamour of the host, for the host shouted all together, and clashed their swords against their shields in fierce defiance, when in spite of all obstructions the fairy music of the enchanter began to steal into their souls. Then the roar of the host slowly faded away as in a dream, though the captains were still shouting, and two-thirds of the torches fell to the ground. Question: Where was the fairy tune coming from? Answer: the mountains of Slieve Gullion
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. I shall be forever happy in my new state, for I have been obedient to my parent. Question: How will the father feel after Iadilla flies away? Answer: remorseful
Context: It was summer time, the corn was yellow, the oats green, the hay was stacked down in the green meadows, and there the stork walked about on his long red legs and talked Egyptian. Round the fields and meadows there were large woods and within them deep lakes: indeed, it was pleasant out in the country. Question: Where did the other Ducks prefer swimming? Answer: the moat
Context: Why was a wooden wand kept before the Queen of Heaven's holy picture in the cabin? Question: It was used to make the fish-dragons disappear. Answer: the-queen-of-heaven
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. A sorceress, that had a beautiful daughter, wished me for her son-in-law; but the mother got power over me, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.' Question: Who put the prince under an enchantment? Answer: a sorceress
Context: In the following spring the crab was delighted to see the shoot of a young tree push its way up through the ground. It was the little crab's pleasure to go out day by day and sit in the sun and put out his long eyes in the same way as a snail puts out its horn, and watch the persimmons ripening to perfection. Question: What happened each year? Answer: The tree grew bigger.
Context: IF YOU should chance, after a tempest, to cross a field where buckwheat is growing, you may observe that it looks black and singed, as if a flame of fire had passed over it. And should you ask the reason, a farmer will tell you, "The lightning did that." Question: Who knows about Buckwheat? Answer: farmers
Context: And she was invited to the concert in the evening--the family concert. But I haven't the jewel; not that I cry about that--no, I must go higher up, into splendor and joy! Question: What does the little toad think to herself while watching the stars and the moon? Answer: She decides to go higher up, into splendor and joy.
Context: But when they wanted to drive on, the bottom of the coach broke. So they sent to the little house in the forest, and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the golden house-door, of which the clerk had told them. And going home they went still faster, and were nearly out of their wits by the time they reached the castle. Question: What happened because the calf pulled the coach? Answer: It moved from the spot quickly enough.
Context: But the Fairy Queen suddenly tightened her rein, and the grey palfrey stopped short in its wild career. For he saw three roads leading across it now, which he had not noticed before, and each of these three roads was different. Question: What happened after Thomas looked once more over the desert? Answer: Everything seemed changed.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: What did Hyacinthia change into when the Prince did not return? Answer: a little blue field flower
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Why did the woman tell her son to take the rope and bring a bresna? Answer: He never done any good yet.
Context: He traveled over high hills, and on the third day he came to a large and spacious forest through which his road lay. When he came up to the giant he made several strokes at him, but could not reach his body, but wounded his thighs in several places; and at length, putting both hands to his sword and aiming with all his might, he cut off both his legs. Question: What was the monstrous giant doing? Answer: dragging along by the hair of the heads a handsome knight and his lady
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. The Magician sat on a throne, a sparkling crown on his head; his eyes blazed like a green fire, and instead of hands he had claws. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. For to-day you may go, but to-morrow I shall have something more to say to you.' Question: Why did the Prince follow Hyacinthia's advice? Answer: He needed to please the Magician.
Context: "This may clear my throat," thought the senator, and slipped the bonbon into his mouth. Then he paused, balanced himself upon his left foot, and kicked his right leg into the air in the way favored by ballet-dancers! Question: Why did the senator balance himself upon his left foot, and kick his right leg into the air in the way favored by ballet-dancers? Answer: He slipped the bonbon into his mouth.
Context: said the astonished Kumaso, forgetting war and council and everything as he looked at the gentle intruder. He beckoned to the disguised Prince and bade him sit down and serve them with wine. Question: Why did Yamato put on a air of shyness? Answer: to keep his disguise
Context: There once lived an Indian in the north who had ten daughters, all of whom grew up to womanhood. She was a great admirer of romantic places, and spent much of her time with the flowers and winds and clouds in the open air. Question: What were the daughters noted for? Answer: their beauty
Context: "And that is the truth," the woman replied, "for he grants my every wish before it is spoken." "Well," said the woman, "if that will help, I will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it, for then he always takes a little noon-day nap." Question: Why did the wife go up to her husband with his razor? Answer: She wanted to cut off his chin hairs.
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: Why did no one want to be the god-father? Answer: They did not want to pay for the christening.
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. Then she thought to herself she'd have a sharp eye about her this time; so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inches open. Another evening, when they were all so happy, and the prince dandling the baby, a beautiful greyhound stood before them, took the child out of the father's hand, and was out of the door before you could wink. Question: What will happen after the youngest princess has a little girl sent to her? Answer: A beautiful greyhound stood before them, took the child out of the father's hand.
Context: The charcoal-burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment, as if they could hardly believe their ears. When they were ready, one of the king's special servants entered, and took them into a small hall, where dinner was laid. Question: Where did the servants lead the couple to? Answer: into rooms filled with beautiful things
Context: The chimney itself was wide enough inside for a man to stand up and walk about. Tom Kitten coughed and choked with the smoke; he could hear the sticks beginning to crackle and burn in the fireplace down below. Question: What was the chimney like? Answer: a very old-fashioned one
Context: He came to the river of nine bends, whose green waters flowed along between two rows of weeping-willows. So the Dragon-King sent out a Triton, terrible to look upon, who was to find out what was the matter. Question: Where did Notscha go when he ran away from home? Answer: to the river of nine bends
Context: Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat, making clothes for her children. However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, as they would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king's. Question: What did the wife do after she reached home? Answer: went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother
Context: When Jack had got his bagpipes he said, 'Daddy, do go to the smithy and have the house cock shod for me; then I'll ride off and trouble you no more.' His father, who was delighted at the prospect of getting rid of him, had the cock shod, and when it was ready Jack my Hedgehog mounted on its back and rode off to the forest, followed by all the pigs and asses which he had promised to look after. Question: Why was the farmer delighted when Jack my Hedgehog said he would ride off? Answer: the prospect of getting rid of him
Context: When the Prince reached Omi he found the people in a state of great excitement and fear. It is indeed a matter for wonder that here in this place, so near the capital, a wicked monster has dared to take up his abode and be the terror of the King's subjects. Question: What did the people not do because they were afraid? Answer: go out to their daily work in the fields
Context: The story went on, but the story-teller never once looked at the prince, even through her veil, though he on his side never moved his eyes from her. When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree, the king's son could restrain himself no longer. Question: What did the girl want to do before she answered her husband's questions? Answer: finish her tale first
Context: He then told the young man to arise, and to prepare to wrestle with him. He began the trial, and after a long-sustained struggle he was almost overpowered, when the beautiful stranger said:  "My friend, it is enough for once, I will come again to try you;" and smiling on him, he returned through the air in the same direction in which he had come. Question: Why did Wunzh want the celestial visitor to return? Answer: Wunzh wanted to continue the wrestle.
Context: It happened that when the king had opened the door behind him, Moti noticed that there was a garden outside: without waiting for the king's return he began to think what could be got out of the garden small enough to be shut in the box. ' And a fruit without much scent, or else he would be afraid that I might smell it. Question: What did Moti notice outside? Answer: a garden
Context: "That is terrible disease for a Snow Man," said the yard-dog; "I have suffered from it myself, but I got over it. Why, there's the shovel that is used for cleaning out the stove, fastened to the pole." Question: Who sang about sweet spring-time? Answer: the girls in the house
Context: BUT when the other squirrels heard that song, they rushed upon Timmy Tiptoes and cuffed and scratched him, and upset his bag of nuts. THEY caught him and dragged him up the very same tree, where there was the little round hole, and they pushed him in. Question: What did the other squirrels do to Timmy Tiptoes when they heard the song? Answer: They rushed upon Timmy Tiptoes and cuffed and scratched him and upset his bag of nuts.
Context: Timmy Willie was a little country mouse who went to town by mistake in a hamper. The gardener sent vegetables to town once a week by carrier; he packed them in a big hamper. Question: Where was Johnny Town-mouse born? Answer: in a cupboard
Context: To make the provisions they had laid in last the better, it was agreed among them that two of their number should go south; leaving the other three to watch over, feed, and protect their wounded brother. The travelers set forth, sorry to leave home, but resolved that the first promise of spring should bring them back again. Question: How will the two of the falcons feel about leaving home? Answer: sad
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: Where did Moti and the horse go to? Answer: back to the serai
Context: They went out into the woods, and at the close of the afternoon they brought back a great spoil of meat of all kinds. As the young man appeared to doubt, she added, "Feign yourself sick when you go home to her lodge; and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails you, say that you wish to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful brother the dog, in striving to save you, tore off these pieces which I show you." Question: Why did the young man appear to doubt? Answer: He did not know if the stranger was telling the truth.
Context: I have made a pact with him and I have been unable to buy anything without selling it again in three weeks' time." But no sooner had the evil one seen the handsome bird than he cried:  "Oh, I see! Question: Why was the devil not able to fetch his merchant? Answer: The merchant was unable to sell Kitta Grau.
Context: how sorry Little Lasse was now that he had been disobedient and got into the boat, when father and mother had so often forbidden him to do so! He heard the low words which Little Lasse said to God, and he immediately drew the boat to himself and laid Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rose leaves. Question: Who saved Little Lasse? Answer: old Nukku Matti
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: What did the guards do instead of letting Tom through? Answer: laughed and cursed at him
Context: When they reached the dragon-castle, the little dragon who guarded the gate smelled the tree-wax, so he crouched down and did them no harm. The dragon's daughter received them graciously, and they unfolded the emperor's letter. Question: What did the messengers do when they met the daughter of the Dragon-King? Answer: offered her the jade caskets, the vases and the four hundred roasted swallows as gifts
Context: After the first yard or two they were enveloped in thick darkness. Although they served to give light enough to see by, yet threw such ghostly shadows on the floor that they only seemed to intensify the gloom that hung over the vast apartment. On the straw, by every horse's side, lay the gallant figure of a knight, clad from head to foot in coal-black armour, with a drawn sword in his mailed hand. Question: What will Canonbie Dick do after he sees the motionless horses, knights, and steeds? Answer: follow the old man up the hall to the far end of it
Context: The guests listened breathlessly, for they felt that they would never hear such wonderful music again. For that very night, after all the Nobles had gone back to their tents, a soldier on guard saw, in the moonlight, a snow-white Hart and Hind moving slowly down the road that ran past the camp. Question: Who were the messengers of the Queen? Answer: a snow-white Hart and Hind
Context: So Farquhar took the little creature out carefully between his finger and thumb. "Dost know anything of my friends, or where my father's cottage is gone to?" Question: What did the tiny figure say after Farquhar asked where his friends were? Answer: They were all dead long before he was born.
Context: She even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor. Question: Why did Hase-Hime treat her step-mother kindly? Answer: She had been trained by her own good mother.
Context: One day Isaac had put out a few miles to sea to fish, when suddenly a dark fog fell. Then he began to realize that either he was steering out to sea, or that the wind had veered, and at last he made sure the latter was the case. Question: What did Isaac think was happening because he sailed on and on without sight of land? Answer: The wind had veered.
Context: 'I will tell you who I am,' said the old man; 'I am the raspberry king, who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and I have lived here for more than a thousand years. Now yesterday was just my transformation day, and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to death if you had not saved my life. Question: Who ruled over the woods, and the sea, and the sky? Answer: the great spirit
Context: 'God save you,' says the King (for the King was a civil-spoken gentleman, by all accounts), 'God save you,' says he to the young man. 'Oh, that's a folly to talk,' says the King, 'because myself and my goose is private friends,' says he, 'and no one could tell you,' says he, 'barrin' the fairies.' For I'd have you know,' says he, 'that I don't keep the likes o' such company.' Question: Why did Saint Kavin say it wasn't the fairies that told him about the goose? Answer: He didn't keep the likes of such company.
Context: She took her by the hand and led her to a large door standing open, and as she was passing through it there fell upon her a heavy shower of gold, and the gold hung all about her, so that she was covered with it. And then the door was shut again, and the girl found herself back again in the world, not far from her mother's house; and as she passed through the yard the cock stood on the top of the well and cried,      "Cock-a-doodle doo! Question: What did Mother Hulda return to the girl? Answer: her spindle
Context: Toward morning the princess wanted to fly home again, but she did not venture to ride alone; the troll must accompany her. When the troll had mounted, the comrade swung up in back of him, and off they were through the air in the direction of the king's castle. Question: What did the comrade do once the door closed behind the princess? Answer: hewed off the troll's head and went up with it to the youth's room
Context: The next morning he ran with the second giant, whom he also outran, killed and beheaded. He told White Feather that he was about to be deceived; that he had never known any other sex but his own, but that as he went on his way to the lodge he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world. Question: What did the old counselor tell White Feather regarding being deceived? Answer: White Feather was about to be deceived.
Context: Once upon a time there was a wood-mouse, and her name was Mrs.
Tittlemouse. There were yards and yards of sandy passages,
leading to storerooms and nut-cellars and seed-cellars, all amongst the
roots of the hedge. Question: Where did Mrs. Tittlemouse live? Answer: in a bank under a hedge
Context: It was in a capital position, for it could get sun, and there was enough air, and all around grew many tall companions, both pines and firs. It did not heed the warm sun and the fresh air, or notice the little peasant children who ran about chattering when they came out to gather wild strawberries and raspberries. Question: Why didn't the fir-tree like the children saying that it was a pretty little one? Answer: It wanted to be a big tree.
Context: Now it happened that the cat and dog met each other on their travels. Though they had not been the best of friends at home, they were quite glad to meet among strangers. Question: Who did the cat and the dog meet on their travels? Answer: a fox
Context: But Kung became involved in a dispute with a traveling censor. Kung now inquired after sister Giauna, and was told that she had married. Question: Why was Kung dismissed from his post? Answer: A traveling censor complained about Kung.
Context: If it was to make his wife contented and happy it was well worth the risk. 'You may as well come out,' said the king, 'and hear what I have to say.' Question: Why did the wife scream after her husband lifted the lid? Answer: A small mouse had sprung from the inside of the tureen, and had nearly hit her in the eye.
Context: They had not very far to go, but Moti's little pony, weighted with a heavy man and two big rocks, soon began to lag behind the cavalry, and would have lagged behind the infantry too, only they were not very anxious to be too early in the fight, and hung back so as to give Moti plenty of time. The young man jogged along more and more slowly for some time, until at last, getting impatient at the slowness of the pony, he gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the pony completely lost his temper and bolted. Question: What happened after the pony completely lost its temper and bolted? Answer: One stone became untied and rolled away in a cloud of dust to one side of the road.
Context: And now, succeeding the flute music, sounded the music of a stringed instrument exceedingly sweet. Finn pressed the cruel spear-head closer to his forehead, and saw every torch fall, save one which wavered as if held by a drunken man, and beneath it a giant figure that reeled and tottered and strove in vain to keep its feet. Question: What will happen when the soldiers hear the fairy music? Answer: They will fall asleep.
Context: On the third day when she once more went to the wood, everything happened exactly as on the first and second day. And now kiss me," said the snake, "but if you are afraid, put your apron between us." Question: Why was the prince in the form of a snake? Answer: magic spells
Context: When the monkey heard these words he rejoiced in his inmost heart, for all his fears of being suspected were now at rest. I remember that we once exchanged a rice-dumpling for a persimmon-seed. Question: Why did the monkey use false tears? Answer: He was not really sad.
Context: Up and down swam the fish, then he made the most dreadful contortions, and became suddenly quite still. She was still standing on one leg with the other high in the air; she too was steadfast. Suddenly a door opened, the draught caught up the little Dancer, and off she flew like a sylph to the Tin-soldier in the stove, burst into flames-and that was the end of her! Question: What will happen to the Tin-soldier after the little boy throws him into the stove? Answer: melt
Context: All would have gone well if Farquhar had only looked where he was going. His companions sped merrily on, not noticing what had befallen him. Question: Why didn't his companions help Farquhar out of the thatch? Answer: His companions sped merrily on, not noticing what had befallen him.
Context: Running crab-fashion up the stony river bank, over the pathways into the shadowy forest, the crab at last found the monkey taking an afternoon nap in his favorite pine-tree, with his tail curled tight around a branch to prevent him from falling off in his dreams. He was soon wide awake, however, when he heard himself called, and eagerly listening to what the crab told him. Question: What did the monkey devise? Answer: a cunning plan which would give him all the persimmons for himself
Context: Once upon a time a man named Hu-Wu-Bau, who lived near the Great Mountain, went walking there one day. The latter had a meal prepared for him and said: "I only sent for you to-day because I had heard you intended traveling to the West. Question: Why did the Lord of the Great Mountain send for Hu-Wu-Bau? Answer: The Lord of the Great Mountain wanted Hu-Wu-Bau to take a letter to his daughter.
Context: That very moment the wood was alive with dwarfs, all of them asking with one voice: "What are my lord's commands? They showed him the way, and he reached his goal quickly and without trouble, for no one interfered with him. Question: Why did Mike by the Stove need to fetch the princess himself? Answer: The dwarfs were powerless to touch her.
Context: In the midst of the wedding festivities, when the king and his whole court were seated at table, the door opened, and in came Silverwhite with his dogs. To prove it beyond any chance of doubt, each of the king's daughters showed her father the ring she had wound in Silverwhite's locks. Question: How did the princesses feel when they saw Silverwhite? Answer: joy
Context: "And as for the narrow road, all hampered and hindered by the thorns and the briars, there be few that be troubled to ask where that leadeth to. "And, mark'ee, Thomas, if ever thou hopest to see thine own Tower of Ercildoune again, take care of thy tongue when we reach our journey's end, and speak no single word to anyone save me--for the mortal who openeth his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever." Question: What did Thomas need to do to go home? Answer: He cannot speak.
Context: Gopani-Kufa turned to Insato, but found, in the place of the python, a man, strong and handsome, with the great snake's skin wrapped round him for covering; and on his arms and neck were rings of pure gold. He then took Gopani-Kufa by the hand and led him towards the town. Question: What did Insato turn into once he entered the country? Answer: a man
Context: I know, too, my imperfection, and I am well aware that in that very thing is seen my humility, my modesty. I spread abroad a blessing on thirsting mankind, for in me the Chinese leaves are brewed in the boiling, tasteless water." Question: what does the teapot have that no one else has? Answer: a spout
Context: The son had often heard tell of her, and one fall, when his parents had already come home from the mountain pasture, he put on his full uniform, saddled his service horse, thrust his pistols in the holsters, and thus rode up into the hills. When he rode toward the pasture, such a fire burned in the herdsman's hut that it lit up every road, and then he knew that the mountain folk were inside. Question: How did the old man and woman look different from the maiden? Answer: The old man and woman were crooked and shriveled up with age.
Context: Then the guardian of the pass cast himself to earth and pleaded for him. So Laotsze placed the talisman among the bones and at once the servant came to life again. Question: Why did the guardian adore Laotsze as his master? Answer: Laotsze taught him the art of eternal life, and left him his teachings.
Context: In this manner the Weendigo and the hunter's family lived for some time, and it surprised them that the monster never attempted their lives; although he never slept at night, but always went out and returned, by the break of day, stained with blood, and looking very wild and famished. He presented to him two arrows, and thanking the hunter and his wife for their kindness, the Weendigo departed, saying, as he left them, that he had all the world to travel over. Question: How did the hunter and his wife feel when the Weendigo left? Answer: happy
Context: "Well, I suppose you have seen all sorts of beautiful things?" It is dearer to me than anything else I have," said the king, "but my son is just as dear to me, and therefore I will give you the ring. Question: What did the ring allow the youth to do? Answer: get everything that he wanted to have
Context: Men call me Queen, but it is of a far other country; for I am the Queen of Fairy-land, and not the Queen of Heaven." This was just what she wanted, for she knew that if she once kissed him she had him in her power. She saw the poor man's astonishment and terror, and she burst into a mocking laugh. Question: Why did Thomas have to serve the Queen of the Fairies? Answer: He asked for a kiss.
Context: Also, there was Mrs. Tittlemouse's bedroom, where she slept in a little
box bed! Mrs. Tittlemouse was a most terribly tidy particular little mouse,
always sweeping and dusting the soft sandy floors. Question: Who was the most terribly tidy particular little mouse? Answer: Mrs. Tittlemouse
Context: Poor Thomas, meanwhile, stood far away at the other end of the Hall, feeling very lonely, yet fascinated by the extraordinary scene on which he was gazing. For, although all the fine Ladies, and Courtiers, and Knights were dancing in one part of the Hall, there were huntsmen coming and going in another part, carrying in great antlered deer, which apparently they had killed in the chase, and throwing them down in heaps on the floor. Question: What did the huntsmen bring back? Answer: great antlered deer
Context: He again exacted a promise of secresy, and went back to his tree. The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. Question: How will the hunter feel when he hears two persons playing? Answer: suspicious
Context: There was also in the house a ram with a white belly, a jet-black head, dark-green horns, and green feet; and there was in the end of the house a hag covered with a dark ash-coloured garment. The man at the door-post welcomed us; and we five, having our five hounds with us, sat on the floor of the bruighean. ' I could be but with difficulty recognised; and the lamentation of Caoilte on account of my being in that condition was greater than that he had before given vent to on account of my thirst. Question: How did Fionn's people feel when Fionn recovered his color and appearance? Answer: happy
Context: Little Miss Muffet had never eaten curds and whey before, and did not know how they tasted; but she was very hungry, so she took the dish and went into the orchard. The girl had never seen such an enormous and hideous-looking spider before, and she was so frightened that she gave a scream and tipped backward off the tuffet, spilling the curds and whey all over her dress as she did so. Question: Where did Miss Muffet sit? Answer: a tuffet in the orchard
Context: "Do you think there is any one who would pay all that money for such an arrant sinner's sake?" If he could manage to have him buried, he would be willing to pay for the wake out of his own slender purse. Question: Why did the pastor agree to bury the corpse? Answer: The youth returned with two men, and asked him in their presence whether he refused the dead man Christian burial.
Context: The moment she did so a hollow roar, like that of some wild beast, sounded from the forest. Finally there was a cracking and breaking among the trees, the bushes were thrust aside, and the princess saw a great grey wolf come running out of the forest and straight up the hill. Question: Who was the handsome young man? Answer: the king's daughter's lover
Context: In the land of the four rivers there dwelt a man who was very rich. Then the girl got out again and said in farewell: "You are truly a good and honest man, and for that reason I must tell you the truth. Question: What happened when the man set out on a long journey? Answer: The man met a girl, dressed in red, who begged him to take her with him.
Context: With these words the Lady raised her hunting-horn, and blew a loud and piercing blast; and, as she did so, a marvellous change came over her again; for her ugly ash-covered gown dropped off her, and the grey in her hair vanished, and she appeared once more in her green riding-skirt and mantle, and her face grew young and fair. Immediately the sound of the horn rang out, the doors of the Castle flew open, and the King hurried out to meet the Queen, accompanied by such a number of Knights and Ladies, Minstrels and Page-boys, that Thomas, who had slid from his palfrey, had no difficulty in obeying her wishes and passing into the Castle unobserved. Question: What happened after the Queen of Fairies blew her hunting-horn? Answer: She became young and beautiful again.
Context: They ate and drank and enjoyed themselves, and then slept far into the next day. The youth was still asleep when the old man came and offered him a morning draft in a golden goblet. Question: What did the old man offer the youth? Answer: a morning draft in a golden goblet
Context: He fell to and partook heartily of the meal; and, by so doing, he was overcome, and lost his right of revenge. Onwee Bahmondang watched his opportunity, and as soon as he saw that the false brother's sleep was sound, he resumed his youthful form, and sent off the two fairy daughters and the old garden; and drawing the magic-ball from his back, which turned out to be a great war-club, he fetched the slumbering brother a mighty blow, which sent him away too; and thus did Onwee Bahmondang vindicate his title as the Wearer of the Ball. Question: What happened to the brother after eating? Answer: fell into a profound sleep
Context: THERE lived in a certain village a poor old woman who had collected a mess of beans, and was going to cook them. The coal answered,  "I jumped out of the fire by great good luck, or I should certainly have met with my death. If the old woman had kept me in the pot I should have been cooked into a soft mass like my comrades." Question: Why did the poor old woman collect a mess of beans? Answer: to cook them
Context: When the old man and his wife saw this, they understood that it was a reward to them from Shiro for their faithful love to him. They tasted the cakes and found them nicer than any other food. Question: Why did Shiro reward the old man and his wife? Answer: their faithful love to him
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: Where did Jack my Hedgehog go to first? Answer: the first kingdom
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: What did the prince think would happen to him if he entered the giant's home? Answer: The giant would murder him.
Context: Shiro's master thought this a strange request, because he knew quite well that not only did his neighbor not love his pet dog. He then took his spade and hastened to his own field, forcing the unwilling Shiro to follow him. Question: Why was Shiro unwilling to follow the wicked old man? Answer: The wicked old man treated him poorly.
Context: And all the payment the brownie ever asked for was a bowl of broth. She complained to Jegu of his laziness, and he only stared at her, not understanding what she was talking about. Question: What did the brownie ask as a payment? Answer: a bowl of broth
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: Why did the Queen give Thomas the Gifts of Prophecy and Poesie? Answer: These gave him the power to foretell the future, and to write wondrous verses.
Context: The gifts of tobacco, after this, came in even more freely than they had at first; and as each brought his bundle to the lodge of Wassamo, he asked for the usual length of life, for success as a hunter, and for a plentiful supply of food. Wassamo told him that it could not be; that only spirits could exert the necessary power, and that there were no such spirits at hand. Question: Why did Netawis want to attend Wassamo and his wife at a distance? Answer: He wanted to know how Wassamo disappeared.
Context: She pulled them off the wall, smacked them, and took them back to the house. "My friends will arrive in a minute, and you are not fit to be seen; I am affronted," said Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit. Question: What happened when Mrs. Tabitha Twitch's friends come over? Answer: There were very extraordinary noises over-head.
Context: 'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given, and to whom they belong. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story, and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see. Question: What did the muleteer need to give to the elder brother? Answer: the mule
Context: The devil would gladly have won back some of the tribute Murmur had forced from his grandmother for the king. And after he had won all the devil had with him, the latter had to give him some of the gold and silver that was in the castle. Question: Why did Murmur always win? Answer: He made a cross on the cards.
Context: Then, getting out of bed, he groped about the room, and at last found a large thick billet of wood. He laid it in his own place in the bed, and then hid himself in a dark corner of the room. Question: What did Jack do to trick the giant? Answer: Jack laid a large thick billet of wood in the bed and hid himself in a dark corner of the room.
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: What will Princess Terute do because she hates Hase-Hime? Answer: try to kill Hase-Hime
Context: Now when they had already covered a good bit of the homeward road, they passed close to a steep cliff-side where the giants dwelt. No, that I will not allow under any circumstances," answered the father, "otherwise you will be lost to me into the bargain." Question: What happened when the six sons and their wives passed a steep cliff-side? Answer: A giant came out, looked at them, and turned them all to stone.
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: What did the goose swim across the lake for? Answer: diving for trout and cod fish on a Friday for the King
Context: But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what wanted. So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile, and said:  "Oh, Mr. Crocodile, isn't it a lovely day?" Question: What was the crocodile doing before he saw the hare? Answer: come out all by itself that day to enjoy the bright sunshine
Context: 'I will not set her free,' answered Manawyddan, 'till thou swear that no vengeance shall be taken for his, either upon Pryderi, or upon Rhiannon, or on me.' 'I will not set her free till Pryderi and Rhiannon are with me.' Question: Why didn't Manawyddan immediately set the bishop's wife free? Answer: He wanted the bishop to fulfill his promises first.
Context: In the centre of the large apartment a great troop of Fairies, Elves, and Sprites were dancing reels as hard as they could to the music of a tiny set of bagpipes. When they saw that he was not hurt, they bowed gravely and bade him be seated. Question: What did the fairies do when they saw that he was not hurt? Answer: bowed gravely and bade him be seated
Context: But before he started he gave her a comb, and told her that whenever she used it, pearls and diamonds would fall from her hair. She wrung her hands and shed tears, but then she recollected herself, and cried out, 'Wood, I charge you by my three magic gifts, the scissors, the comb, and the reel--to let me through'; and it opened, and she went along a walk till she came in sight of a palace, and a lawn, and a woodman's cottage on the edge of the wood where it came nearest the palace. Question: Where did the youngest princess walk to? Answer: a woodman's cottage on the edge of the wood
Context: And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "It is best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some place where we can spend the night." Fergus went back to his companions and told them what he had seen. If I would not know them," said Bricriu, "it is because a year might make a change in them, so that I would not be sure." " It was they themselves, changed into birds, that went to Emain Macha to bring you here." And when they had eaten and drunk and began to be satisfied, Conchubar said to the young man, "Where is the mistress of the house that she does not come to bid us welcome?" " Question: Who was the young woman beside the young man? Answer: Dechtire
Context: He at once made ready to start, and great was the stir in the precincts of the Palace as he and his trusty followers gathered together and prepared for the expedition, and polished up their armor and donned it. She then wished him all success in his undertaking and bade him good speed. Thus cheered by his aunt's blessing, he felt ready for all that might befall, and marching through the land he went down to the Southern Island of Kiushiu, the home of the brigands. Question: What will Yamato use to take down the rebels? Answer: His aunt's robe
Context: Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo, a very remote part of Japan even in these days, a man and his wife. The visit to the temple when she was just thirty days old, her proud mother carrying her, robed in ceremonial kimono, to be put under the patronage of the family's household god. Question: Where did a man and his wife live long years ago? Answer: old Japan
Context: Wunzh now returned to his father's lodge, where he was warmly welcomed. The summer was drawing toward a close, when one day, after a long absence in hunting, Wunzh invited his father to follow him to the quiet and lonesome spot of his former fast. Question: Why was Wunzh not allowed to see anyone except for his father? Answer: He was fasting.
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: What will happen when Gilla na Chreck an Gour gets rid of the wolf? Answer: He must have all the king's daughter.
Context: In the place to which they came all was adorned with silver plates and dishes, and with ornaments of silver, and Ola thought that the king himself had nothing finer. Suddenly the man with the gilded goat's horns came in, and gave Ola a shove before he knew it; but Ola came back at him as before, and so they beat and pulled each other through all the rooms, and along all the walls. Question: How long did the scuffle last? Answer: over fourteen days
Context: "Listen," said the neighbor, "there is one thing you must do for me as a favor." "You must shift your cow-stable, because it is in my way," was the answer he gave the peasant. Question: Why did it seem foolish to the peasant to tear down his stable? Answer: He put it up only this summer.
Context: 'I shall row out a little way--only a very little way,' he thought. The pea-shell boats had travelled so far that they only looked like little specks on the ocean. ' The oars were locked up in the boat-house, and Little Lasse had not noticed that the boat was empty. Question: Why was Little Lasse frightened? Answer: He did not have oars to row with.
Context: She began to make excuses, and said she could not find the way to it; but the bridegroom said,  "You must come and pay me a visit next Sunday; I have already invited company, and I will strew ashes on the path through the wood, so that you will be sure to find it." When Sunday came, and the girl set out on her way, she felt very uneasy without knowing exactly why; and she filled both pockets full of peas and lentils. Question: What stood in the middle of the dark wood? Answer: a lonely house
Context: The cock answered,"Very well, only you must sit well back, and then you will not fall forward." "And pray take care     Of my red wheels there;     And wheels be steady,     And mice be ready     On Mr. Korbes a call to pay,     For that is where we go to-day!" Question: Why did the cock ask the cat to sit at the back? Answer: so that the cat will not fall forward
Context: Uraschimataro agreed willingly, and in another moment they were deep, deep down, with fathoms of blue water above their heads. But if Uraschimataro was astonished at the beauty of the outside, he was struck dumb at the sight of the hall within, which was lighted by the blaze of fish scales. Question: Who was the first waiting maid of the lovely princess Otohime? Answer: the turtle
Context: So the Prince Toyonari and his wife went to the temple of Kwannon at Hase and stayed there for a long time, both daily offering incense and praying to Kwannon, the Heavenly Mother, to grant them the desire of their whole lives. A daughter was born at last to the Princess Murasaki, and great was the joy of her heart. Question: What happened because Prince Toyonari and his wife prayed at the temple? Answer: A daughter was born at last to the Princess Murasaki.
Context: I wandered and wandered about there, without knowing where I wandered, until at last I got into a big bog. Down it came with a pounce, and looked at me full in the face; and what was it but an eagle?--as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdom of Kerry! Question: Where did Daniel walk to? Answer: a big bog
Context: But the princess was so merry and active, and so full of fun and nonsense, that he thought neither of the shears nor of himself. The youth looked through all his pockets; but his shears were not there, and he was more than unhappy when he realized that he had lost them. Question: How did the youth feel when he realized he lost the shears? Answer: unhappy
Context: This little incident made the clever Emperor think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and his men over the river in the same way that the leaf had carried over the spider. He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat. Question: What did Kotei try? Answer: make something that could carry himself and his men over the river
Context: It happened that when the king had opened the door behind him, Moti noticed that there was a garden outside: without waiting for the king's return he began to think what could be got out of the garden small enough to be shut in the box. ' And a fruit without much scent, or else he would be afraid that I might smell it. Question: Why did Moti guess that there was fruit in the box? Answer: The king came from the garden.
Context: So they made an exchange; the toll keeper at the turnpike gate kept the goose, and the peasant carried off the fowl. Now he really had done a great deal of business on his way to the fair, and he was hot and tired. Question: What was the ostler carrying in the sack? Answer: rotten apples
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. Question: How will Iadilla feel towards his father? Answer: hatred
Context: On the third day the magistrate came by, and also saw the little golden house in the forest. When he came back in the evening, he had a much bigger sack of money with him than the clerk had had, and he stood it on the bench. Question: What did the magistrate look like after his dance with the calf? Answer: ragged and badly beaten
Context: "Thy inheritance," answered the King, "be it great or small, and whether it lies in Ireland or beyond Ireland; and for securities I give you my son Art and Gaul mac Morna and the Chief of the Fians." Gaul and the captains of the Fianna consented to that arrangement, though reluctantly, for their minds misgave them as to who the great youth might be. Question: Who was the original owner of the girdle and instruments of divination and magic? Answer: his father
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: What did the wolf offer the prince? Answer: to let the prince ride on him
Context: The young crab set out at once to call on the mortar, his father's old friend, and told him of all that had happened. The mortar now sent to fetch the bee and the chestnut (also the crab's old friends) to consult them about the matter. Question: Why did the young crab call on the mortar? Answer: He was his father's old friend.
Context: asked she, at the same time signing to her daughter to stir the large pot on the fire. 'You cannot get it here,' said the witch, 'but you will find both food and shelter in the palace on the other side of the lake. Question: Why did the witch say to leave the youngest boy? Answer: She could find work for him.
Context: Suddenly, close behind them, they heard a sigh, then a groan. ' With the first breath of flame that swept over her when she ran with her friends Snowflake had melted away, and a little soft haze floating upwards was all that remained of her. Question: Why did the young girls believe that Snowflake went home? Answer: They could not find Snowflake in the woods.
Context: The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was when the man returned from his work in the field. Sure enough, Shiro was waiting for his master and the evening tit-bit. Question: What did the man do after he ate his supper? Answer: take what he had saved from the meal out to the little veranda that ran round the cottage
Context: At last news reached the king that Moti had exchanged his horse for a live tiger; and the monarch himself came down, half disbelieving the tale, to see if it were really true. The king, however, did not share his pleasure at all, but called up a soldier to shoot the tiger, much to the relief of all the inmates of the serai except Moti. Question: What did the King do after Moti explained how he exchanged his horse for a tiger? Answer: called up a soldier to shoot the tiger
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you up as well," said she, and seized the squirrel and ate him up. Question: What did the cat do when she saw the squirrel? Answer: seized the squirrel and ate him up
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Why did the woman behind tell the king to kill the wolf? Answer: The man made for him.
Context: His father replied: "During my life on earth I happened to tread on bread, hence I was condemned to hard labor at this spot. I have passed two years in this manner, yet their bitterness has been unspeakable. Question: What did Hu-Wu-Bau's father want his son to do? Answer: plead for him, and beg him to excuse him from this task and make him the field- god in their village
Context: Then suddenly the warrior remembered that he had heard that human saliva was deadly to centipedes. This was so monstrous that even to think of such a creature made one creep with horror. Then with a convulsive shudder the serpentine body stopped moving, and the fiery light of its great eyes and hundred feet darkened to a dull glare like the sunset of a stormy day, and then went out in blackness. Question: Why was Hidesato regarded the bravest warrior in all Japan? Answer: He killed the centipede.
Context: 'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck, and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest. So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some pieces of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes. Question: Why couldn't the fish tribe light the fire again? Answer: The wood was too wet.
Context: He told her all that had happened to him, and of the great part her keepsake had played in the success of his previous undertaking, and thanked her very heartily. At the same time the grass on his left and right burst into flames, and these began to spread swiftly towards him on all sides. Question: What will Yamato use to help him escape the fire? Answer: the gifts from his aunt
Context: THERE lived in a certain village a poor old woman who had collected a mess of beans, and was going to cook them. The coal answered,  "I jumped out of the fire by great good luck, or I should certainly have met with my death. If the old woman had kept me in the pot I should have been cooked into a soft mass like my comrades." Question: What would have happened if the old woman kept the bean in the pot? Answer: It would have been cooked into a soft mass.
Context: There was a witch woman in that country whose name was "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan." She knew, too, that with the coming of the new faith trouble would come upon the fairy folk, and their power and their great majesty would depart from them, and men would call them demons, and would drive them out with psalm-singing and with the saying of prayers, and with the sound of little tinkling bells. Question: Why did the witch hate Murtough? Answer: He had scattered and destroyed the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin, her country and her fatherland.
Context: One afternoon her mother, who happened to be at home for an hour, suddenly thought of her little daughter; so she rang the bell and asked for Nurse Holloweg. "And very good advice it was, too," remarked the Nurse to one of the maids; "for I feel as if I needed a change myself." Question: What did the doctor advise the Nurse to do about Miss Muffet? Answer: Take her away into the country as soon as possible.
Context: Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good to eat; and, as for seasons, he asked for whatever fruit he wanted whenever he wanted it, and saw that he got it; so to him Moti's guess was like a miracle, and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence, for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box. Of course when the king marvelled and praised Moti's wisdom, everybody else did so too; and, whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen, Moti took the horse and entered the king's service. Question: What happened after Moti came back one wet and stormy evening? Answer: His precious horse had strayed.
Context: It had pretty little blue flowers, as delicate as the wings of a moth. People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen. Question: What shall the mother make from the flax? Answer: linen
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: Why was the strip of moorland known as Merlin's Crag? Answer: The famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there.
Context: After a time the father came, together with A-Sung, and made Kung a present of a hundred ounces of gold. Kung opened his eyes and saw his old home, and then he knew that his friend was not of human kind. Question: What did the youth's father give to Kung? Answer: a hundred ounces of gold
Context: Stopping a moment to think what she would do, she remembered an old charm-verse. Now she began to clap her hands to keep time to the rolling of the peach down stream, and while she clapped she sang this song:    "Distant water is bitter,    The near water is sweet;    Pass by the distant water    And come into the sweet." Question: What did she remember? Answer: an old charm-verse
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Who did not laugh during dinner? Answer: the foxy fellow
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Tom Kitten was very fat, and he had grown; several buttons burst off. When the three kittens were ready, Mrs. Tabitha unwisely turned them out into the garden, to be out of the way while she made hot buttered toast. Question: What did Tom Kitten's mother do when his buttons burst off his coat? Answer: sewed them on again
Context: 'I will do anything that will bring me back to you,' exclaimed Uraschimataro, looking at her tenderly, but the princess was silent: she knew too well that when he left her she would see his face no more. Uraschimataro thanked her from his heart, and swore solemnly to do her bidding. He hid the box safely in his garments, seated himself on the back of the turtle, and vanished in the ocean path, waving his hand to the princess. Question: What will happen to Uraschimataro when he leaves the palace of Ringu? Answer: He will not be able to return.
Context: In Dschen-Giang there once lived a widow named Dsiang, who had a son called Aduan. But one day he fell into the water below the Gold Island and was drowned. Question: Who was no more than seven years of age and he was extraordinarily skillful? Answer: Aduan
Context: If you had only held out until the end of the year, I would have been delivered. I have a step-mother who has cast a spell on me, so that by day I am a bear, and at night a human being. Question: What must the prince do now because of the maiden? Answer: There is a princess with a nose three yards long, whom he must now marry.
Context: Long, long ago, when all the animals could talk, there lived in the province of Inaba in Japan, a little white hare. One day as usual, the hare was standing on the beach, looking towards the mainland across the water, when he saw a great crocodile swimming near the island. Question: What could animals do long ago? Answer: talk
Context: He turned suddenly where she sat in the circle, pensively regarding the crooked ear which she held in her hand, and exclaimed:  "Leelinau, the old man is thine!" He was quite advanced in years; but he enjoyed such renown in battle, and his name was so famous in the hunt, that the parents accepted him as a suitor for their daughter. Question: Why did Leelinau's parents accept the eldest son of a neighboring chief as a suitor for their daughter? Answer: enjoyed such renown in battle, and his name was so famous in the hunt
Context: "Well, whether you be crooked or straight, you will have to let me pass," said Per Gynt. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: Why was the cottage a poor place to be in? Answer: This crooked one was outside and inside.
Context: THERE was once a regular student, who lived in a garret and had no possessions. The huckster could afford this, and therefore the goblin remained with him--which was very shrewd of the goblin. Question: How many posessions did the student have? Answer: none
Context: It is hard to have anything to do with the good people without getting a mark from them. Musha, indeed, sir, your coat looks no better than a withered dock-leaf.' ' Question: Where was the wife on Thursday? Answer: at the market of Enniscorthy
Context: He pricked his ears and listened to the trit-trot, trit-trot of a pony. A gig was coming along the road; it was driven by Mr. McGregor, and beside him sat Mrs. McGregor in her best bonnet. Question: Why did little Benjamin Bunny slide down the raod hopping, skipping, and jumping? Answer: to call upon his relations, who lived in the wood at the back of Mrs. McGregor's garden
Context: "Very well," said the leader of the buffalos, whose form was nothing but bone. " Maidwa turned away, for it was very dark, and it pained his eyes to look upon it; and, moving away by the aid of his guardian spirits, he again stood upon the earth, and beheld the sun giving light as usual. Question: Where was the place of the wicked? Answer: the dark cloud
Context: He came to the river of nine bends, whose green waters flowed along between two rows of weeping-willows. So the Dragon-King sent out a Triton, terrible to look upon, who was to find out what was the matter. Question: What did Notscha do when he saw the Triton? Answer: threw his golden armlet at him
Context: "It is time to mount and ride, Thomas," she said, "if thou wouldst ever see the fair Castle of Ercildoune again." Thou spokest of seven long years, Lady," he exclaimed, "and I have been here but three days." Question: Why did the Queen fear that the Evil Spirt would take Thomas? Answer: He was a good fellow.
Context: The king began to revive at these hopeful words, and took Moti off to his stable where he bade him choose for himself any horse he liked. There were plenty of fine horses in the stalls, but to the king's astonishment Moti chose a poor little rat of a pony that was used to carry grass and water for the rest of the stable. Question: What horse did Moti choose? Answer: a poor little rat of a pony
Context: "Did I not order you to tear down that castle and hang its builder?" This they could not deny; but now the captain himself stepped forward and told what had occurred, and what an alarming number of soldiers the duke had, and how magnificent his castle was. Question: Who told the king what had occurred at the duke's castle? Answer: the captain
Context: But the princess was so merry and active, and so full of fun and nonsense, that he thought neither of the shears nor of himself. The youth looked through all his pockets; but his shears were not there, and he was more than unhappy when he realized that he had lost them. Question: What did the princess do while she and the youth were laughing and joking? Answer: secretly robbed him of the shears without his noticing
Context: She made no resistance, but turning as she left the lodge, she cast upon Bokwewa a smile of kind regard, and was at once, with her companion, gone from his view. Sometimes he would fall to weeping for a long time, and now only it seemed that he remembered how gentle and beautiful had been the ways of her who was lost. Question: What happened to Kwasynd after the woman left? Answer: face changed and was dark as the night
Context: If I were only away and up above again," thought he, but he said nothing. I am well aware that you are waiting impatiently for the wedding, and I will hurry all I can. Question: What did the rat tell the youth to repeat? Answer: Short before and long behind'
Context: So the Prince Toyonari and his wife went to the temple of Kwannon at Hase and stayed there for a long time, both daily offering incense and praying to Kwannon, the Heavenly Mother, to grant them the desire of their whole lives. She even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor. Question: How did Prince Toyonari treat Hase-Hime? Answer: kindly
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who had a queen that he loved with a great love. But after a time the queen died, and all he had left was an only daughter. Question: How did the king's young daughter grow into? Answer: the most lovely maiden ever known
Context: "Why," said she, "that's Finn's bread--the only bread he ever eats when at home; but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there. "I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he to Oonagh, "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer." Question: Who could eat Finn's bread? Answer: Finn
Context: The boy went out again and brought home the little animal, which he asked his grandfather to boil, that they might feast on it. As they lived alone, and away from other Indians, the curiosity of the stripling was excited to know what was passing in the world. Question: How did the boy become an expert hunter? Answer: His grandfather encouraged him to acquire the knowledge of hunting until he could kill deer and larger kinds of game.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: Who did the old man go to for advice? Answer: an old witch
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: Who was Yamato? Answer: son to the Emperor Keiko
Context: He told her all that had happened to him, and of the great part her keepsake had played in the success of his previous undertaking, and thanked her very heartily. When she heard that he was starting out once again to do battle with his father's enemies, she went into the temple, and reappeared bearing a sword and a beautiful bag which she had made herself, and which was full of flints, which in those times people used instead of matches for making fire. Question: What was used instead of matches during those times? Answer: flints
Context: The children looked round wonderingly, and saw a little kind-looking old man, in a white coat and a red cap, limping out from among the bushes, for he was lame in his left foot; neither Lisa nor Aina could utter a word, they were so filled with surprise. 'Yes, indeed we have,' said both the girls, 'but tell us...' and they wanted to ask who the old man was, but were afraid to. Question: Why was the little kind-looking old man limping? Answer: He was lame in his left foot.
Context: I hear horses' hoofs behind us,' said Hyacinthia to the Prince. The Magician's servants hurried after the fresh tracks, but when they came to the bridge, they stood, not knowing which road to take, as the footprints stopped suddenly, and there were three paths for them to choose from. Question: Why did the servants not know which road to take? Answer: The footprints stopped suddenly, and there were three paths for them to choose from.
Context: "There is one point," they added, "of which we wish to speak. For another to usurp what belongs to her, we know to be the severest test of her goodness of heart, and consequently of your temper and feelings. Question: What happened after the guests ceased? Answer: Total darkness filled the lodge.
Context: As he was returning on his homeward way he came to the high pass of the Usui Toge, and here he stood and gazed at the wonderful prospect beneath him. So, though in life the Princess Ototachibana was unhappy, history keeps her memory green, and the story of her unselfishness and heroic death will never pass away. Question: Where did Yamato come to while returning homeward? Answer: Usui Toge
Context: He was vain of his brass ferrule and silver top, and on the sofa lay two worked cushions, pretty but stupid. When the play at the little theatre began, the rest sat and looked on; they were requested to applaud and stamp, or crack, when they felt gratified with what they saw. Question: Wow did the bamboo cane hold himself? Answer: stiff and proud
Context: Her godmother only just touched her with her wand, and, at the same instant, her clothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver, all beset with jewels. She left behind one of her glass slippers, which the Prince took up most carefully. When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them: If they had been well diverted, and if the fine lady had been there. Question: Why did Cinderella wear her nasty old clothes, having nothing left her of all her finery? Answer: It was after midnight.
Context: Then Thomas took courage, and looked up; and lo, they were riding through a beautiful orchard, where apples and pears, dates and figs and wine-berries grew in great abundance. And his tongue was so parched and dry, and he felt so faint, that he longed for some of the fruit to restore him. Question: What did Thomas see in the beautiful orchard? Answer: apples, pears, dates, figs, and wine-berries
Context: 'This is the wretch who killed our father,' they said, 'and we demand that he should die also.' asked the judge, turning to the accused, and the poor man told how he had leaped from the wall, not knowing that anyone was beneath. Question: How did the elder brother feel after the judge completed all of the verdicts? Answer: happy
Context: After a time Aduan gradually slipped to the end of his file and Rose of Evening also drew near to him, so that they stood only a few feet away from each other. When all the dances had ended, the dancers marched out with the goose-step. Question: What did Rose of Evening purposely drop? Answer: a coral pin fall from her hair
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. Although he saw now that they had no intention of killing him, he did not relish the prospect of spending the rest of his life in the guise of a seal, fathoms deep under the ocean. asked the seal catcher eagerly, overjoyed at the prospect of being restored safely to the upper world, and to his family. Question: What will the stranger do after the seal catcher heals his father? Answer: release him
Context: When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supper herself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another, for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time. Question: Why did the neighbor need the girl's pot? Answer: Her pot had cracked in the fire.
Context: When they reached the dragon-castle, the little dragon who guarded the gate smelled the tree-wax, so he crouched down and did them no harm. The dragon's daughter received them graciously, and they unfolded the emperor's letter. Question: What did the messengers give the little dragon as a bribe? Answer: a hundred roasted swallows as a bribe
Context: There was no one in sight, but Aggo heard the words quite plainly, and as he suspected the ditty to be the work of his enemies, the buffalos, he hopped home as fast as his one leg could carry him. To the king himself she paid no heed, and although he breathed forth to her every soft and gentle word he could think of, she sat still and motionless for all the world like one of the lowly bushes by the door of her father's lodge, when the summer wind has died away. Question: Why was the daughter taken by the king of the buffalos? Answer: He loved her.
Context: The table on which the tin soldiers stood, was covered with other playthings, but the most attractive to the eye was a pretty little paper castle. In front of the castle a number of little trees surrounded a piece of looking-glass, which was intended to represent a transparent lake. Question: What else was on the table where the tin soldiers stood? Answer: other playthings like a paper castle
Context: The wife took the box, and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached. What I have brought you is called a mirror, and whoever looks into its clear surface can see their own form reflected there. Although there are none to be found in this out of the way place, yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times. Question: Why did the wife not know what the gift was? Answer: She had never seen a mirror before.
Context: When he had gone on a few miles, he saw in the distance a girl in a red coat, barefoot, and with unbound hair, who was running as fast as the wind. Question: What did the old Buddhist monk see when he had gone on a few miles? Answer: a girl in a red coat, barefoot, and with unbound hair, who was running as fast as the wind
Context: THERE was once a proud teapot; it was proud of being porcelain, proud of its long spout, proud of its broad handle. But it did not talk of its lid, which was cracked and riveted; these were defects, and one does not talk of one's defects, for there are plenty of others to do that. Question: how did the teapot feel about being porcelain? Answer: proud
Context: As he was returning on his homeward way he came to the high pass of the Usui Toge, and here he stood and gazed at the wonderful prospect beneath him. So, though in life the Princess Ototachibana was unhappy, history keeps her memory green, and the story of her unselfishness and heroic death will never pass away. Question: What made Yamato burst out into a sorrowful and bitter cry? Answer: thinking of Ototachibana's love which he had scorned and his faithlessness to her
Context: Yamato Take now bade farewell to his aunt, and once more placing himself at the head of his men he marched to the farthest East through the province of Owari, and then he reached the province of Suruga. The Prince was utterly deceived by the cordiality of his host, which was all feigned, and gladly consented to join in the hunt. Question: What happened because of the cordiality of the governor? Answer: The Prince was utterly deceived.
Context: Then the enemy began to throw bombs at him, and shoot at him with cannon. said he, and spat it out again, and then came a chain-bullet and fell into his butter-plate, and another tore away the bit of bread from between his fingers. Question: What did Murmur do when a bomb flew into his windpipe? Answer: "Faugh!" said he and spat it out again
Context: The young man glanced up in surprise, and asked who was there. 'Look close, and you will see me among the reeds in the form of a little green frog. Question: What did the brownie of the lake turn himself into from a frog? Answer: a little dwarf, all dressed in green
Context: He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves, he handed it to his guest. "I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. Question: How will the men feel after performing the ceremony? Answer: relaxed
Context: Anyhow, he saw that it would be the wisest plan to pretend obedience in the absence of the girl's father. With the help of some peasants he soon built a little cottage, and having sent secretly for his wife to come, these two good old people did all in their power to take care of the now unfortunate Princess. Question: Why did Katoda defy the step-mother's orders? Answer: knew that the young Princess was quite innocent of all the things her step-mother had invented to him as reasons for her outrageous orders
Context: In time she told them all that had happened to her, and they didn't know what to advise her to do. She was as fond of her husband as ever, and said she was sure that he couldn't help letting the children go; but still she was afraid beyond the world to have another child torn from her. Question: Where was the youngest princess after she made the wish to see her husband? Answer: her husband's palace
Context: There they stood, looking towards the bridge of Thuar, in the dead of the night, with a little moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid. He looked, but could see nothing; and she stood trembling and her eyes wide open, looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola. " Question: Who did the neighbor see? Answer: the poor man's wife
Context: Long before the time of Fu Hi, Dschu Yung, the Magic Welder, was the ruler of men. In the skies the Fiery Star, the southern quarter of the heavens and the Red Bird belong to his domain. Question: Why were his descendants intrusted with the preservation of fire? Answer: The succeeding generations learned from him to cook their food.
Context: His friends had gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was in love with the most beautiful Reed. said the Swallow, who liked to come to the point at once, and the Reed made him a low bow. Question: Why did the Swallow stay behind when his friends had gone away to Egypt? Answer: He was in love with the most beautiful Reed.
Context: "I have heard tell, however, that one is safe from any power that the Knight may have if one wearest the Sign of the Blessed Trinity. So he went out to the meadow and plucked a leaf of clover, which he bound on his arm with a silken scarf; then he mounted his horse and rode with Earl Gregory to the desolate and lonely moorland. Question: How did the young men feel after they saw a horseman? Answer: scared
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: How will the daughter feel when her father coaxes her to go with Jack? Answer: upset
Context: The Queen was in despair, but as night was coming on she ordered that they should encamp just where they were, and went to bed herself, feeling quite ill, she was so disappointed. In the middle of the night she was suddenly awakened, and saw to her surprise a tiny, ugly old woman seated by her bedside, who said to her:  'I must say that we consider it somewhat troublesome of your Majesty to insist upon tasting our fruit; but to save you annoyance, my sisters and I will consent to give you as much as you can carry away, on one condition-that is, that you shall give us your little daughter to bring up as our own.' Question: What did the ugly fairy do when the queen wanted to eat her fruit? Answer: give them her little daughter
Context: "Now you have delivered me," said he, "for the old woman, with whom you and your master have been dealing, is a witch, and she turned me into a lizard, and my brother and sister into a dog and cat." She was actually on the way to throw us into the sea and drown us; but if any one were to appear and want to buy us, she had to sell us for four shillings apiece, that had been agreed upon. Question: How did the youth feel to hear the prince's story? Answer: surprised
Context: he exclaimed, with a look of sorrow on his wrinkled face, "hast thou come, as thy companion came, to pay thy toll of years to the Elfin King? But I set out over the enchanted moor, and the Elfin King appeared in the guise of a beauteous Knight, and he looked so brave, and noble, and generous that I followed him hither, and drank of his heather ale, and now I am doomed to bide here till seven long years be spent. Question: Why was the grizzled Goblin doomed to bide there for seven long years? Answer: followed the Elfin Knight here, and drank his heather ale
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: What happened when the lovers realized Princess Cynthia's love was valueless? Answer: They ceased to care for them, and went away disdainfully.
Context: Presently in his course he came to a great field of castor-oil plants, ten or twelve feet high, big and bushy, but quite green and soft. Hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed Moti grasped one in passing, but its roots gave way, and he dashed on, with the whole plant looking like a young tree flourishing in his grip. Question: Where did Moti go to while he lost control of his pony? Answer: a great field of castor-oil plants
Context: Long, long ago in Kyoto, the people of the city were terrified by accounts of a dreadful ogre, who, it was said, haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by. The missing victims were never seen again, so it was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal, who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also. Question: Why were people scared of the ogre? Answer: It was said he haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by.
Context: In a church-nave a specter sat night by night, and the specter's name was Torre Jeppe. One night three tailors were working at a farmstead in the neighborhood. Question: What were the men doing while working at a farmstead in the neighborhood? Answer: laughing and joking
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: Why was the evil one so afraid of Kitta Grau? Answer: Kitta Grau managed to sow dissension between the couple.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant boy, who dreamed that he would get a princess, from far, far away, that she was as white as milk, and as red as blood, and so rich that her riches had no end. This surprised the youth, and when the pastor came out of the church, he asked him what it meant. " Question: What did the peasant boy dream? Answer: that he would get a princess, from far, far away, and tat she was as white as milk, and as red as blood, and so rich that her riches had no end
Context: Then Kintaro and the woodcutter both put out their right arms and grasped each other's hands. I saw you first on the banks of the river a few hours ago, when you pulled up that large tree to make a bridge across the torrent. Question: Why did the old man declare it a drawn game? Answer: the strange pair were evenly matched
Context: When he came to court they at once took him on as a herdsman. As long as Peter was on the common or in the enclosure, he kept his hares together nicely, but later, when they reached the forest, they ran away from him across the hills. Question: Why did Peter have three red strips cut from his back? Answer: More than a single one of the king's hares were lost.
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: How will the old man and his wife feel about being sent a child? Answer: happy
Context: But she thought: "One should not try to discover the secrets of others," and said nothing. Question: How did the young woman feel about Lillwacker? Answer: suspicious
Context: They used to say I was a pretty little fellow; then I lay in a velvet-covered chair in my master's house. You can see into it from where you are standing; you can look at the room in which I was master, for so I was when I was with the housekeeper. Question: Why was the old yard-dog given to the housekeeper? Answer: He grew too big.
Context: Saying this, he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse and went out to his work in the fields. Her face was seamed with many wrinkles, and was as brown as leather, and every now and then she stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face. Question: What happened because the badger was hung upside-down? Answer: It was hard to think clearly.
Context: After they had reflected a while they hit on the idea of lighting a great fire, and burning the ball of gold twine, for then the suitor could surely not regain it. Yet when she threw it into the flames, the comrade leaped forward and caught it, without being seen, for he was wearing the Three-Sisters Hat. Question: What did the comrade do after retrieving the ball of twine and returning home? Answer: gave the twine back to the youth
Context: There was once a Fox and a Wolf, who set up house together in a cave near the sea-shore. Although you may not think so, they got on very well for a time, for they went out hunting all day, and when they came back at night they were generally too tired to do anything but to eat their supper and go to bed. Question: Who tried to over-reach his companion? Answer: the Fox
Context: The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! they had united, and were making all haste to come up with the hunter and his two sons. They now might well be in extreme fear, for they knew not how to escape her. The crane so addressed was of extraordinary size, and had arrived at a great old age, and, as might be expected, he sat, when first descried by the two sons, in a state of profound thought, revolving his long experience of life there in the midst of the most violent eddies. Question: How did the crane help the sons and the father? Answer: took them across the falls
Context: Thus did the unkind step-mother humble herself and ask forgiveness of the girl she had so wronged. The father saw by his wife's face that she was truly sorry for the past, and was greatly relieved to see the terrible misunderstanding wiped out of remembrance by both the wrong-doer and the wronged. Question: Why did the daughter forgive her step-mother? Answer: the sweetness of the girl's disposition
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: What happened because of the misfortune that prayed upon Kintoki's mind? Answer: He died.
Context: Now the poor labourer was but a clumsy dancer, and he held back with a shamefaced air. For in a moment he found himself waltzing and whirling, sliding and bowing, as if he had done nothing else but dance all his life. Question: How did the Fairies know it was dawn? Answer: They heard a cock from the farmyard crowing.
Context: At that moment the dragoon flung open the door, and shot off his pistol right above the maiden's head, so that she tottered and fell to the ground. Her nose was only half its original size, and her ugly cow's tail was tied back; but she was not as handsome, and any one who said so would not have been telling the truth. Question: What did the girl look like after she was washed? Answer: Her nose was only half its original size.
Context: 'Well, since I have come at the doom of this reptile, I will ransom it of thee for seven pounds, rather than see a man of thy rank touch it. 'If thou wilt not set it free for this, I will give thee all the horses thou seest and the seven loads of baggage.' Question: What did the bishop offer to Manawyddan after he refused the money? Answer: all the horses and the seven loads of baggage
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: Where will the Fairy send Sylvia? Answer: Phyllida
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: Where did the King set forth from? Answer: his capital
Context: I had bitten the youngest boy in the leg, because he took away the bone I was gnawing; a bone for a bone, I thought! The Snow-man, however, was not listening to him any more; he was looking into the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on its four iron legs, and seemed to be just the same size as the Snow-man. Question: Why did the old yard-dog believe the snow-man would disappear when he reached the stove? Answer: The stove would melt the snowman.
Context: The old woman then gave to the young man the bones which were to secure his success; and she informed him with great care how he was to proceed. He bethought him of his guardian, and invoking his aid, and changing himself into a squirrel, he mounted nimbly up again, in the hope that the lodge would not now escape him. Question: Why did Onwee thrust one of the bones into the trunk of the tree? Answer: He remembered the instructions of the old woman.
Context: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep. And then he knew that the one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years, and he realised how heavy the punishment had been which the Wee Folk had laid upon him. Question: How did the poor man's wife feel when she saw him again? Answer: surprised
Context: So Grethel gave Hans a young goat; then he said,  "Good-bye, Grethel," and she said, "Good-bye, Hans." So Hans carried off the goat, and tied its legs together, and put it in his pocket, and by the time he got home it was suffocated. Question: What did Hans do with the goat? Answer: put it in his pocket
Context: And he told the king's son he was to fetch his horse from the pasture, and when he had done this, he might rest: "For you have come to a kind master," said he. " Yet it is not an easy matter to ride this horse home," said the Master Girl, "but I will tell you how to set about it. Then he stood still, as gentle as a young lamb, and he had no trouble bringing him to the stable. Question: What happened after the bit was thrown into the horse's mouth? Answer: He stood still, as gentle as a young lamb, and the king's son had no trouble bringing him to the stable.
Context: It was a very dark night, and there was neither moon nor star to light Watanabe on his way. To make the darkness worse a storm came on, the rain fell heavily and the wind howled like wolves in the mountains. Question: Why was Watanabe not afraid of going out of doors? Answer: was a brave warrior and dauntless
Context: "Only listen," said the young storks, "to what the boys are singing. But the boys went on singing, and pointed mockingly at the sentinel stork. Question: what did the mother tell the young stork to do? Answer: don't listen to what they say
Context: There was no water to be found, and he did not know how he was to refresh himself. The youth ran about everywhere like mad, looking for water; but there was no water there, and none to be found, and when he returned she was dead. Question: How did Mike by the Stove feel when the princess asked for water? Answer: scared
Context: Up and down swam the fish, then he made the most dreadful contortions, and became suddenly quite still. She took up the soldier between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the room, where everyone wanted to see the hero who had been found inside a fish; but the Tin-soldier was not at all proud. Question: Why was the Tin-soldier nearly going to shed tin-tears? Answer: The Dancer was still standing on one leg with the other high in the air.
Context: Suddenly, close behind them, they heard a sigh, then a groan. ' With the first breath of flame that swept over her when she ran with her friends Snowflake had melted away, and a little soft haze floating upwards was all that remained of her. Question: How did Ivan and Marie feel when Snowflake disappeared? Answer: sad
Context: It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face, and they looked at each other in silence. Then tears rose in the eyes of the elder, but winking them hastily away, he said:  'Brother, it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am; you can see that for yourself. Question: What did the elder son want to do with his younger brother's unfinished houses? Answer: make them watertight, so that his wife and children can live in them
Context: The roads crossed each other in the depths of the forest, and she no longer knew whither she should go! The thorns went right into her flesh, and her blood flowed in large drops, but the thornbush shot forth fresh green leaves, and there came flowers on it in the cold winter night, the heart of the afflicted mother was so warm. Question: What happened when the mother warmed the thorn bush? Answer: it became green
Context: 'I will lie here and rest under this tree,' he said to his attendants. ' Away they went, and the young man fell asleep, and slept long. Question: What did the king's son do after he wondered why the girl was crying? Answer: climbed up the tree
Context: All the while, each one thought most of himself, or of what the money-pig could be thinking. The pieces of the money-pig were thrown into the dust-bin, and the next day there stood a new money-pig on the cupboard, but it had not a farthing in its inside yet, and therefore, like the old one, it could not rattle. Question: Why couldn't the new money pig rattle? Answer: he didn't have a thing inside him yet
Context: As soon as the old woman saw him she called out:  "O Fii San! ( answered the old woman, "nothing has happened, only I have found a nice present for you!" Question: Why was the woman so impatient? Answer: She wanted to show her husband the peach.
Context: When the pancake heard that it was frightened, turned itself around suddenly, and wanted to get out of the pan. And it rolled off like a wheel, out of the door, and down the street. Question: How did the woman feel when the pancake leaped out on the floor and rolled out of the door? Answer: frustrated
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: Why was it almost impossible to see through the trees? Answer: The trees grew so thick and near together.
Context: And the tapers burnt low on the branches, and were put out one by one, and then the children were given permission to plunder the tree. The children danced about with their splendid toys, and no one looked at the tree, except the old nurse, who came and peeped amongst the boughs, just to see if a fig or an apple had been forgotten. Question: Who came and peeped amongst the boughs, just to see if a fig or an apple had been forgotten? Answer: the nurse
Context: Notscha laughed and said: "And there he has gone and made my armlet bloody!" Suddenly he saw a creature rise out of the waves, on whose back sat an armed man who cried in a loud voice: "Who has slain my Triton?" Question: Who did the Dragon-King send out to capture Notscha? Answer: his son
Context: He was much surprised to see the little golden hut, glittering and sparkling there in the forest, and was still more surprised at the girl within the hut. The Master Girl said that, seeing he had so much money, she would accept him. And then she asked him to rake the fire, which she said she had forgotten to do. So they sent to the little house in the forest, and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the poker of which the bailiff had spoken. Question: How did the bailiff know of the poker? Answer: He had been stuck to it.
Context: Who spouted up water against one another till the sun in the sky is obscured, and the seas were shrouded in profound darkness? Question: two giant fish Answer: the-queen-of-heaven
Context: A moment more and his brothers and sisters, and their parents and friends, were transformed into birds of various plumage. He again cast his eyes in the direction of the clouds, and uttered the peculiar cry which had given him the victory at the rock. The lodge again shook and trembled, for they were now passing through the uppermost clouds, and they immediately after found themselves in the Evening Star, the residence of Osseo's father. " Question: What will happen when Osseo hangs the cage of birds at the door? Answer: Osseo will be told why he and his wife have been sent for.
Context: But when he got home to the castle, one of his brothers was just getting married, and the bride and all the guests were already there. But the king's son would taste nothing, and only made haste in order to get away. Question: What happened when the king's son took a bite of the apple? Answer: He had forgotten the Master Girl and that he was to fetch her.
Context: While these things were passing, there were living in an Indian village at some distance, two sisters, the daughters of a chief, who were rivals, and they were at that very time fasting to acquire power, for the purpose of enticing the wearer of the white feather to visit their lodge. The eldest sister had prepared her lodge with great show, and all the finery she could command, so as to attract the eye. Question: Why did the giant return with nothing but himself? Answer: He supposed that whoever possessed the white feather possessed also all its virtues.
Context: He was vain of his brass ferrule and silver top, and on the sofa lay two worked cushions, pretty but stupid. The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much. Question: How did the audience feel about the comedy show? Answer: amused
Context: She thus followed in the pursuit, from valley to valley, and stream to stream, for many months and years; when she came at length to the lodge of the last of the friendly old grandmothers, as they were called, who gave her the last instructions how to proceed. These directions the young woman followed just as they had been given to her, and in a short time she heard her son, now grown up, going out to hunt, with his dog, calling out to him, "Peewaubik--Spirit-Iron--Twee! Question: What did the friendly old grandmothers tell the mother to do with a little bark dish? Answer: fill it with the juice of the wild grape
Context: The King and all the courtiers could not conceal their joy and astonishment, and the marriage of the three Princes was celebrated at once. The festivities lasted several months, and then each king and queen departed to their own kingdom and lived happily ever after.(1) Question: What did the characters do after the festivities ended? Answer: Each king and queen departed to their own kingdom and lived happily ever after.
Context: "And that is the truth," the woman replied, "for he grants my every wish before it is spoken." "Well," said the woman, "if that will help, I will be sure to keep an eye open after dinner and attend to it, for then he always takes a little noon-day nap." Question: When did the woman plan to cut off her husband's chin hairs? Answer: his noon-day nap
Context: You are not even like an ordinary man, for you are exceptionally idle. I will send you to the country of Perpetual Life, where death never comes-where the people live forever!" Question: Why did Jofuku offer Sentaro another way to answer his prayer? Answer: Sentaro would not make it as a hermit.
Context: Scarcely had she finished speaking when she saw beside her a little silver tray with a gilt coffee-pot, two cups of rare porcelain, a sugar basin of fine crystal, silver sugar tongs, and some good fresh white bread. 'Now I should like to know very much who has given us all this,' said Lisa gratefully. Question: What happened after Lisa wished to meet the person who gave them all the food they needed? Answer: Someone appeared.
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Where did the wolf say he would try to go when summer came? Answer: home to his own country
Context: THEN he tried to find his way straight across the garden, but he became more and more puzzled. Peter thought it best to go away without speaking to her; he had heard about cats from his cousin, little Benjamin Bunny. Question: What was the white cat doing near the pond? Answer: A white cat was staring at some gold fish; she sat very, very still.
Context: But they were not so very, very naughty after all, because Tom Thumb paid for everything he broke. He found a crooked sixpence under the hearth-rug; and upon Christmas Eve he and Hunca Munca stuffed it into one of the stockings of Lucinda and Jane. Question: Why does Hunca Munca come to the two doll's house every morning? Answer: to sweep the Dollies' house before anybody is awake
Context: The next morning, when they awoke, the sun was high in heaven, and shone brightly through the leaves. So the brother refrained from drinking, and said,  "I will wait until we come to the next brook, and then I must drink, whatever you say; my thirst is so great." And when they came to the third brook the sister heard how in its rushing it said,      "Who drinks of me a fawn will be,     He a fawn will be who drinks of me!" Question: Why didn't the sister want the brother to drink from any of the brooks? Answer: because they would turn him into an animal
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: Why did the old man and woman fall to the ground? Answer: They were astonished at what they saw.
Context: The woman smiled and was silent, and after spinning busily for an hour more, she got up from her stoop, and began to weave as fast as she could. At last she got up, and said to her husband: 'I am too tired to finish it to-night, so I shall go to bed, and to-morrow I shall only have the cutting and stitching to do.' Question: What does the wife declare to do tomorrow? Answer: to cut and stitch
Context: 'Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped?' But it sounded horrid, and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf. Question: What happened after Walter beat his drum again near the kiln? Answer: It sounded horrid, and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf.
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. You will soon see us lie down, and we shall not rise again till the spring. Question: Why would the Sand-Spirits lie down and not rise until spring? Answer: It was winter.
Context: The hare humbled himself before this great fairy Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto, whom many in that part of the land worshiped as a god. I am quite sure that the Princess, whom your brothers have gone to seek, will refuse to be the bride of any of them. Question: Who did the hare think the Princess would want to marry? Answer: Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto
Context: The black thong leaped from him, and it bound the giant until the two eyes were going out on his head with the squeezing and with the tightening it gave him, and the giant promised to give him anything at all; "but spare my life," says he. When he came home that night the coopers were not able to make enough of vessels for them to hold the quantity of milk that the cows had, and the pigs were not able to eat with the quantity of apples that they had eaten before that. Question: How will the coopers feel about seeing so much milk? Answer: overwhelmed
Context: The man drove off on his way, and John crossed the hill to his home. There stood the giant gate of the Jutulsberg wide open, and out of it streamed a light and radiance as of thousands of candles. Question: How did John feel towards the man? Answer: grateful
Context: After some time the linen was taken into the house, and there cut with the scissors and torn into pieces and then pricked with needles. Now I shall be of some use in the world, as every one ought to be. Question: Why was the linen cut into  pieces? Answer: to be made into garments
Context: Both of them have made a botch of their errand," said he, "and are causing the bride to wait in vain!" And they took an oath that they would never again seek a bride for the river-god. Question: Why did the sorcerer fling himself on the ground and beg for mercy? Answer: The other sorcerer and witch did not come back from the river-god's castle.
Context: At last she pitied him, and removed the charm, and the horns dropped down on the ground, and he would have killed her on the spot, only he was as weak as water, and his fellow-servants came in and carried him up to the big house. Well, the witch's daughter heard about it too, and she came to see the strange girl; and what did she find her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper; and as she cut away, the paper became the richest silk she ever saw. Question: Why did the youngest princess want to spend one night outside the prince's chamber? Answer: She wanted to help her husband.
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who had a cat, and she ate so very much that he did not want to keep her any longer. So he decided to tie a stone around her neck, and throw her into the river; but before he did so she was to have something to eat just once more. Question: What did the cat do after she ate? Answer: jumped out of the window
Context: said one of the trolls, and threw a burning hot, roasted frog into the bear's jaws. And Per Gynt hewed into the crowd with his other wagon-spoke as though he meant to break their skulls. Question: What did Per Gynt do after the trolls left? Answer: feasted on the Christmas fare all of Christmas week
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. She paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife. Question: Why did the woman want to marry the king? Answer: Her daughters might be kept like royal princesses.
Context: After he had wandered a while, and began to feel a proper hunger, he came to the old woman who was wedged by the nose in the tree-trunk and who was pulling and jerking away, in order to get loose. No one has called me mother for the last hundred years," said the old woman, "but come and help me out, and give me a bite to eat; for I have not had a bit to eat in all that time. Question: What happened after Esben wandered a while? Answer: He began to feel a proper hunger.
Context: When she reached the church, she took Torre Jeppe on her back, carried him home and sat him down on the bench beside the tailors. They had no need to tell her twice, for she took Torre Jeppe on her back, and dragged him away again. Question: Why did the tailors promise to give the girl another dress? Answer: They wanted her to take Torre Jeppe away.
Context: JEMIMA PUDDLE-DUCK was a simpleton: not even the mention of sage and onions made her suspicious. AND she waddled into the kitchen, and got two onions out of a basket. Question: What did Jemima get from the kitchen? Answer: two onions
Context: For many days with this intention I have waited on the bridge in the shape of the horrible serpent-dragon that you saw, in the hope that some strong brave man would come along. You are the first man I have found able to look at me without fear, so I knew at once that you were a man of great courage. Question: How did the Dragon King know Hidesato was a man of great courage? Answer: He was the first man he had found able to look at him without fear.
Context: She said, "I would like to go to the place of the breaking of daylight. But," he resumed, "before we part forever, I must go and try to find what manitoes rule the earth, and see which of them will be friendly to us." Question: What did the sister tell Dais-Imid to think of whenever he saw the clouds? Answer: her painting her face
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: What did Earl St. Clair want to put on their wrists? Answer: the Sign of the Blessed Trinity
Context: When it was out of sight, a voice from the pot said:  'Uncover me,' and she lifted the lid, and the little grey snake slid rapidly to the ground. 'Follow me, and let us go home together,' said the snake, and the girl followed his through the forest and along the green paths, till they came to a great lake, where they stopped to rest. Question: Where did the snake and the girl stop to rest? Answer: a great lake
Context: This man's name was Ko-ko, the Owl; and hearing much of the wonderful achievements of the Wearer of the Ball, Ko-ko put on a big look, and announced that he was going to do something extraordinary himself. He would have taken away Onwee's war-club too, if he could have carried it; but although he was twice the size and girth of Onwee, he had not the strength to lift it; so he borrowed a club from an old chief, who was purblind, and mistook Ko-ko for his brother who was a brave man; and raising a terrible tumult with his voice, and a great dust with his heels, Ko-ko set out. Question: What did Ko-ko steal from Onwee? Answer: the moccasins
Context: 'You have told me what I wanted to know,' cried the Fairy, 'but alas! Accordingly the butterflies whisked her off, and set her down in quite a strange kingdom. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' Question: What did Princess Daphne ask for her gift? Answer: the gift of eloquence
Context: Everybody looked at her feet, and the whole of the way from the church door to the choir it seemed to her as if even the ancient figures on the monuments, in their stiff collars and long black robes, had their eyes fixed on her red shoes. The organ pealed forth solemnly, and the sweet children's voices mingled with that of their old leader; but Karen thought only of her red shoes. Question: How did the old lady find out Karen wore red shoes? Answer: everyone told her
Context: Once upon a time there was a woman who had seven hungry children, and she was baking pancakes for them. There was dough made with new milk, and it lay in the pan, and was rising so plumply and comfortably, that it was a pleasure to watch it. Question: What was the dough made with? Answer: new milk
Context: In due time, what with good nursing, and good feeding, and good air, Gray Eagle recovered from his wound, and he repaid the kindness of his brothers by giving them such advice and instruction in the art of hunting as his age and experience qualified him to impart. As spring advanced, they began to look about for the means of replenishing their store-house, whose supplies were running low; and they were all quite successful in their quest except the youngest, whose name was Peepi, or the Pigeon-Hawk, and who had of late begun to set up for himself. Question: What did Gray Eagle do to repay the brothers' kindness? Answer: gave them advice and instruction in the art of hunting
Context: When they were all assembled and seated in a circle, the old chief took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians around, to see if any thing would happen when they smoked. From that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor, and as soon as White Feather had, at the request of the company, faithfully recounted his history, the old chief, who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived, ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs; which being done, the whole six giants were at an end, and never troubled that neighborhood again, forever after. The old chief replied to this application, that a woman must follow her husband into whatever quarter of the world he may choose to go. Question: Why did White Feather tell the young men to make arrows? Answer: to accompany him to a buffalo hunt
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: What did the cabin-boy look like? Answer: a big, tall lad
Context: The old woman went accordingly, and laid the matter before the King, who laughed a little at the notion of his daughter marrying a crab, but did not decline the proposal altogether, because he was a prudent monarch, and knew that the Crab was likely to be a prince in disguise. He said, therefore, to the fisherman's wife, 'Go, old woman, and tell the Crab I will give him my daughter if by to-morrow morning he can build a wall in front of my castle much higher than my tower, upon which all the flowers of the world must grow and bloom.' Question: What did the golden crab do when the fisherman's wife gave him the king's message? Answer: The Crab gave her a golden rod.
Context: asked the earthworm, who had overslept the time, and only now came up. " It is worth much to know that one of the numbers is a man of talent in the thing men call a 'committee.' Question: Who overslept the time? Answer: the earthworm
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: What did Fergus Mac Roy do after finding Setanta? Answer: snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall
Context: In the Skalunda mountain, near the church, there once lived a giant in the early days, who no longer felt comfortable after the church had been built there. He decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells; so he emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea. Question: Where did the giant once live in the early days? Answer: Skalunda mountain
Context: She went and got another of her own children's cradles, of which there were four; but he turned his head, and said:  "That is not mine; I am as sick as ever." To get free of the old Toad-Woman, it was necessary that the young man should kill a fat bear; and, being directed by Spirit-Iron, who was very wise in such a matter, he secured the fattest in all that country; and having stripped a tall pine of all its bark and branches, he perched the carcass in the top, with its head to the east and its tail due west. Question: What did the young man have to do to get free of the Toad-Woman? Answer: kill a fat bear
Context: I see that you can no longer live without me, and I thank you. At times he had to crawl, at others he had to stoop, for the way was very narrow. But when it grew better, he walked in advance, and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off. Question: What did the youth plan to do once they were safely above? Answer: run away from the whole pack of them
Context: exclaimed suddenly a child that stood crying at the door and knocking for admittance, while the rain poured down, and the wind made all the windows rattle. " It is quite impossible for them to know him, and they walk along with him arm in arm, as if he, too, were a student like themselves. Oh, he is a naughty boy, that Cupid; you must never have anything to do with him. Question: Why did cupid really show up at the poet's door? Answer: to shoot an arrow at him
Context: The two eldest were grown up, and though they were known to be idle fellows, some of the neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother was held. Pinkel,' they called him in scorn, and by-and-by 'Pinkel' became his name throughout the village. Question: What did Pinkel do around the house? Answer: made himself useful about the house
Context: AFTER losing them, he ran on four legs and went faster, so that I think he might have got away altogether if he had not unfortunately run into a gooseberry net, and got caught by the large buttons on his jacket. PETER gave himself up for lost, and shed big tears; but his sobs were overheard by some friendly sparrows, who flew to him in great excitement, and implored him to exert himself. Question: What did the sparrows do when they heard Peter cry? Answer: They flew to him in great excitement and implored him to exert himself.
Context: She took a few steps, such as a crawling animal may take, and soon found herself on a road beside which people dwelt. "I know that," said the Caterpillar, on the leaf, "my leaf is the largest here. Question: What happened to the catepillar when the fowl pecked at it? Answer: It fell on the ground, where it twisted and writhed.
Context: Nearly two thousand years ago this sword was kept at the shrines of Ite, the temples dedicated to the worship of Amaterasu, the great and beautiful Sun Goddess from whom the Japanese Emperors are said to be descended. There is a story of knightly adventure and daring which explains why the name of the sword was changed from that of Murakumo to Kasanagi, which means grass clearing. Question: What were the shrines of Ite dedicated to? Answer: the worship of Amaterasu
Context: At last the giant's wife determined that she would go to her father and make known to him what a valuable husband she had, and how he furnished her lodge with a great abundance of sticks and stones, which he would pass upon her for bear and beaver. She then put in heated stones, and poured water upon them, which raised a vapor that filled the lodge and searched with its warmth to the very heart's core of the enchanted dog. Question: What happened after the eldest sister's husband started for the hunt? Answer: The eldest sister set out.
Context: As the fish would not come off the plate, they put it into the red-hot crinkly paper fire in the kitchen; but it would not burn either. TOM THUMB went up the kitchen chimney and looked out at the top--there was no soot. Question: What did Tom Thumb do with Jane's clothes? Answer: took them out of the chest of drawers and threw them out of the top-floor window
Context: When he returned he found his temple destroyed; and the spirit of the hill gave him the details. The latter bestowed upon him the magic of the fiery lance, and Notscha thenceforward had two whirling wheels beneath his feet: The wheel of the wind and the wheel of fire. Question: How did Notscha feel when he found his temple destroyed? Answer: sad
Context: O do not do that," said the rat, "you shall have the ring again!" When the folk at the castle had gone to bed, the rat crept around, and sniffed and spied out the room of the prince and princess; and at last he found a little hole through which he crawled. Question: Who had the princess given the ring to? Answer: the prince
Context: At one time a buffalo would gain handsomely upon Aggo, and be just at the point of laying hold of him, when off Aggo would hop, a good furlong, in an oblique line, wide out of his reach; which bringing him nearly in contact with another of the herd, away he would go again, just as far off in another direction. It was an extraordinary road that Aggo was taking toward home; and after a time it so puzzled and bewildered the buffalos that they were driven half out of their wits, and they roared, and brandished their tails, and foamed, as if they would put out of countenance and frighten out of sight the old man in the moon, who was looking on all the time, just above the edge of the prairie. Question: How did Aggo outsmart the buffalos? Answer: Aggo would hop to be in contact with another herd.
Context: Once upon a time there was a girl who was to go to the wood and drive the cattle home; but she did not find the herd, and losing her way instead, came to a great hill. Straightway people arrived who wanted to dance with the girl; but she would hear nothing of it. Question: What did the girl do when she came to the great hill? Answer: went in
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: How did the youngest princess feel after the eagle took her baby? Answer: sad
Context: Even the engravings, which hung in frames on the wall, turned round in their excitement. And as the game was now to begin, all were invited to take part in it, even the children's wagon, which certainly belonged to the coarser playthings. " Question: How did the engravings feel about the game? Answer: excited
Context: And the King was astonished at her, and he began to ask her questions, for it seemed to him that the power of a great goddess of the ancient time was in her; and he asked her whence she came, and what manner was the power that he saw in her. He asked her, too, did she believe in the God of the clerics, or was she herself some goddess of the older world? Question: Why did the astonished king begin to ask questions? Answer: It seemed to him that the power of a great goddess of the ancient time was in her.
Context: "Why," answered the old man, "it is a matter of course that a father should bring up his son. When you are older it will be your turn to take care of us, so after all there will be no profit or loss between us--all will be equal. Question: Why did the old man feel bothered by Momotaro thanking him? Answer: Momotaro did not need to thank him.
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: Why did the girl stay quite still after she saw the snake? Answer: She was too frightened to move.
Context: Ali Baba borrows his sister-in-law's scales to weigh this new wealth of gold coins. Cassim goes to the cave and enters with the magic words, but in his greed and excitement over the treasures forgets the magic words to get back out again. Question: What does Ali Baba do when his brother does not come back? Answer: goes to the cave to look for him
Context: "Ah, yes, no doubt," said the fern, "but you do not know the world yet as well as I do, for my sticks are knotty"; and then it sang quite mournfully:           "Snip, snap, snurre,            Basse lurre. I am the happiest of all creatures, for I may some day come to something." Question: Why does the fern sing mournfully? Answer: it's knotted
Context: "Now father has gone, you and I must take care of everything till he comes back," said the mother, as she made her way back to the house. "Yes, I will be very good," said the child, nodding her head, "and when father comes home please tell him how good I have been. Question: Why would the girl be happy when her father returns? Answer: He would bring her a present.
Context: Long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded, and he was astonished to behold a man; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather. He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: Why was the boy astonished to behold a man? Answer: He had never seen any human being beside his grandfather.
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog rode on with his cock and bagpipes to the country of the second King to whom he had shown the way. When the King's daughter saw Jack my Hedgehog, she was a good deal startled, for he certainly was very peculiar looking; but after all she considered that she had given her word and it couldn't be helped. Question: What did the second King order the people to do when Jack my Hedgehog came? Answer: cheer
Context: When I saw I was in a man's shape I said I would take the child back to his father and mother, as I knew the grief they were in after him. I knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me, and I said I would cure him if I got a good reward. Question: Why did the man take the child back to his father and mother? Answer: He knew the grief they were in after him.
Context: Why, then,' said I to him--thinking he did not know the right road home--very civilly, because why? Now, you can't see it from this, but there is, or there was in my time, a reaping-hook sticking out of the side of the moon, this way (drawing the figure thus on the ground with the end of his stick). Question: What did the eagle see that made him keep flying? Answer: two men and a gun
Context: Grandmother is very old, her face is wrinkled, and her hair is quite white; but her eyes are like two stars, and they have a mild, gentle expression in them when they look at you, which does you good. Yes, she is smiling at the memory of that day, and many thoughts and recollections of the past; but the handsome young man is gone, and the rose has withered in the old book, and grandmother is sitting there, again an old woman, looking down upon the withered rose in the book. The earth has been heaped on the coffin, and it is earth only that lies within it. Question: What will the kids remember about their grandmother? Answer: Her gentle eyes
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Why did the Abbot kneel low? Answer: the dawn was dim and gray
Context: Then he opened the shells with a pin, split them carefully in two, and broke small little bits of sticks for the rowers' seats. Some of the shells got broken, some remained whole, and when all were ready Lasse had twelve boats. Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water, and they floated as splendidly and as proudly as any great ships over the waves of the ocean. Question: What did Little Lasse's father own? Answer: a beautiful white-painted boat
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Taking advantage of a moment when he was not watched, he went away, thundering along on his rolling wheels to Li Dsing's dwelling. At the height of his extremity, however, the holy Wen Dschu of the Hill of the Five Dragons, the master of Gintscha, Li Dsing's oldest son, stepped forth and hid Li Dsing in his cave. Question: Who was the disciple of the holy Pu Hain? Answer: Mutscha
Context: Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there, and sickness was a thing unknown. They were all tired of their long, long lives, and longed to go to the happy land of contentment called Paradise of which the priests had told them centuries ago. Question: How was Sentaro unlike the other people on the island? Answer: He had a great dread of death.
Context: Then the farmer realized that it was a fox, who was preparing the elixir of life. He hid in the grass and waited until the ball of fire came down again, at about the height of his own head. Question: What did the farmer do after the ball of fire came down again? Answer: stepped hastily from his hiding-place, took it away and at once swallowed it
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: Why did the horse go wherever it liked? Answer: Moti had never been on a horse in his life.
Context: The king's daughter was now filled with eagerness, no longer listened to her step-sister's calls, and kept right on running. At length the princess came to a high hill, and as she looked toward its summit, there stood the lily high on the naked rock, glittering as white and radiant as the brightest star. Question: How did the king's daughter feel about the lily? Answer: eagerness
Context: "That's all very fine," thought the youth--he said nothing, but he thought it would be better, after all, to drive to his home, instead of down into the hideous rat-hole. And at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth's mother, and when she came the wedding festivities began. Question: Where did the youth think the princess had lived? Answer: a hideous rat-hole
Context: The sheep did not like this very well, for every once in a while the shears would pull the wool and hurt them; and when they were sheared they felt very strange, for it was almost as if someone took off all your clothes and let you run around naked. None of them were in a very good temper this morning, although the sun shone so warmly and the grass was so sweet, and as they watched the farmer and his man carry their wool up to the house in great bags, the old ram said, crossly,  "I hope they are satisfied, now that they have stolen from us all our soft, warm fleece." Question: Why did the sheep not like being cut? Answer: The shears would sometimes pull their wool and hurt them.
Context: Now at this time there lived in Kyoto a general named Raiko, who had made himself famous for his brave deeds. Some time before this he made the country ring with his name, for he had attacked Oeyama, where a band of ogres lived with their chief, who instead of wine drank the blood of human beings. Question: What was Raiko famous for? Answer: his brave deeds
Context: shrieked Moti, and ran up and, just as the tiger, in astonishment, dropped a bone--whack! Men gathered in groups talking and exclaiming, and finding fault with the innkeeper for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai, and all the while the innkeeper was just as troubled as the rest, and none dared go near the place where the tiger stood blinking miserably on everyone, and where Moti lay stretched out snoring like thunder. Question: How did people in the serai feel after they found a tiger? Answer: scared
Context: The young man obeyed: at each bound the little hare went seven miles, and it was not long before they reached a castle that was as large and beautiful as a castle could be. It lives in a little cage, with another cage beside it made all of gold. Question: Where did they reach after traveling seven miles? Answer: a castle that was as large and beautiful as a caste could be
Context: Then suddenly the warrior remembered that he had heard that human saliva was deadly to centipedes. This was so monstrous that even to think of such a creature made one creep with horror. Question: What were deadly to centipedes? Answer: human saliva
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: What did the wolf do when everyone went to sleep? Answer: watched till the person woke who attended in the daytime
Context: As Owasso, with his convoy of birds, passed over, he let fall, directly in the face of the old magician, a capful of gulls' eggs. The old magician was quite distressed in his mind that he had not destroyed his son-in-law. Question: How did Owasso get feathers to ornament his son's head? Answer: killed two or three gulls
Context: Ribby and Tabitha set to work to search the house thoroughly again. They even fetched a candle, and looked inside a clothes chest in one of the attics. Question: What happened when Tabitha tried to jump upon the old father rat? Answer: The old father rat showed his yellow teeth and whisked down the hold.
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: What did the king order Tom to do? Answer: put away that divel of a wolf
Context: The King sent off for his physician in ordinary, who washed Jack all over with various essences and salves, so that he became white and was a remarkably handsome young man. After some years Jack and his wife went to visit his father, but the farmer did not recognize him, and declared he had no son; he had had one, but that one was born with bristles like a hedgehog, and had gone off into the wide world. Question: Why couldn't the father recognize Jack my Hedgehog? Answer: Jack my Hedgehog lost his bristles.
Context: It chanced, one dark December night, that there was a dreadful storm at sea, and in the morning the beach was all strewn with wreckage. So as soon as it was daylight the two friends went down to the shore to see if they could find anything to eat. Question: Why was the beach all strewn with wreckage? Answer: There was a dreadful storm at sea.
Context: He had only gone a few steps when he heard some one calling him from behind. On turning back he was much surprised to see that the monster dragon had entirely disappeared and in its place was a strange-looking man, who was bowing most ceremoniously to the ground. Question: Who called Hidesato from behind? Answer: a strange-looking man
Context: The story went on, but the story-teller never once looked at the prince, even through her veil, though he on his side never moved his eyes from her. When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree, the king's son could restrain himself no longer. Question: Why did the girl want to forget about what his brother did? Answer: She wouldn't have gotten her hand back if she didn't get kicked out.
Context: All that night he practiced what is known as chemical sorcery; so that when Claribel Sudds came next day at two o'clock he showed her a small box filled with compounds that closely resembled French bonbons. Eating the white one will enable you to become the finest elocutionist in the land. Question: What did Dr. Daws do when Claribel went to him for his help? Answer: showed her a small box filled with compounds that closely resembled French bonbons
Context: The wily horse-dealer thought that he saw a chance of driving a good bargain. The gold that the stranger gave him was not the gold that was in use at the time, but was fashioned into Unicorns, and Bonnet-pieces, and other ancient coins. Question: Why wouldn't the stranger's coins be of use to the horse-dealer in his everyday transactions? Answer: The gold that the stranger gave him was not the gold that was in use at the time.
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: Where did the enchanter live? Answer: in the haunted mountains of lieve Guillon in the north
Context: 'Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped?' But it sounded horrid, and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf. Question: What did Walter want to do after he felt scared? Answer: go back and say that he struck one wolf and it escaped
Context: Great indeed was Hase-Hime's fear and astonishment when her father sent for her and told her what was required of her. Heavy, indeed, was the duty that was laid on her young shoulders-that of saving the Emperor's life by the merit of her verse. Question: How did Hase-Hime feel when she heard the request? Answer: fear and astonishment
Context: He was soon, having already yielded to temptation by the way, overcome by their fair looks and soft speeches, and he was not long afterward seen beating corn with the women, having entirely abandoned all further quest for his lost wife. Meantime, Bokwewa, alone in the lodge, often musing upon the discourse of the spirit-wife, who was gone, waited patiently his brother's return. Question: Why did Kwasynd fail to return home after several years? Answer: He lived in another village.
Context: "Oh, thank goodness," sighed the Duckling; "I'm so ugly, even the dog doesn't like to bite me!" Then he noticed that one hinge of the door was gone, and it hung so crooked that he could slip indoors through the crack, and so he did. Question: Why did the duckling slip indoors through the crack? Answer: The wind grew worse.
Context: 'Oh, please don't do that,' cried both the girls, very frightened. The two girls, light of heart, now took their berries and ran off through the wood after the bird; and soon it began to get lighter in the wood and they wondered how they could have lost their way yesterday, it seemed so easy and plain now. Question: How were the girls able to get home? Answer: They followed the bird.
Context: And out of stones and sods of earth she fashioned three battalions, and one of the battalions she placed at one side of the house, and the other at the further side beyond it, and one encircling the rest southward along the hollow windings of the glen. And thus were these battalions, one of them all made of men stark-naked and their colour blue, and the second with heads of goats with shaggy beards and horned; but the third, more terrible than they, for these were headless men, fighting like human beings, yet finished at the neck; and the sound of heavy shouting as of hosts and multitudes came from the first and the second battalion, but from the third no sound save only that they waved their arms and struck their weapons together, and smote the ground with their feet impatiently. Question: Where did Sheen put one of the battalions? Answer: at one side of the house
Context: One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passing along the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleating loudly. So he went up to where it was standing, and as it seemed so tired that it could hardly walk, he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued on his way. Question: Why did William decide to take the sheep home with him? Answer: William thought it must have strayed from the flock.
Context: He flew off from the ship beating the air gladly with his wings. If you do not surrender at once, but make up your mind to fight, we, the pheasant, the dog and the monkey, will kill you all by biting and tearing you to death!" Question: What did the pheasant tell the devils to do as a token of their submission? Answer: break off the horns that grow on their forehead
Context: When they were through she gave Esben a whistle which had the power that if he blew into one end, whatever he wished scattered was scattered to all the winds, and when he blew into the other, all came together again. And if the whistle passed from his possession, it would return as soon as he wished it back. Question: What did the old woman give Esben? Answer: a whistle which had the power that if he blew into one end, whatever he wished scattered was scattered to all the winds, and when he blew into the other, all came together again
Context: 'Is that all, and is this how you leave me, you brute, you,' says I. 'You ugly unnatural baste, and is this the way you serve me at last? So I told him how I was a little overtaken in liquor at the master's, and how I was cast on a dissolute island, and how I lost my way in the bog, and the thief of an eagle promised to fly me out of it, and how, instead of that, he had fled me up to the moon. Question: What happened after the eagle left? Answer: a door opened right in the middle of the moon, creaking on its hinges as if it had not been opened for a month before
Context: "Nay," said Jack, "if this be the case I'd better dispatch you!" I lament the fate of a duke's daughter, whom they seized as she was walking in her father's garden, and brought hither transformed into a deer." Question: What happened to the duke's daughter? Answer: She was seized as she was walking in her father's farden and was transformed into a deer.
Context: The dog was pleased with the plan, which was carried out accordingly. When the father saw the wolf running away with his child he cried out, and when old Sultan brought it back again, he was much pleased with him, and patted him, saying,  "Not a hair of him shall be touched; he shall have food and shelter as long as he lives." Question: How did the husband respond to the dog rescuing the child? Answer: He was very pleased.
Context: When Jack had got his bagpipes he said, 'Daddy, do go to the smithy and have the house cock shod for me; then I'll ride off and trouble you no more.' His father, who was delighted at the prospect of getting rid of him, had the cock shod, and when it was ready Jack my Hedgehog mounted on its back and rode off to the forest, followed by all the pigs and asses which he had promised to look after. Question: What happened to Jack my Hedgehog and his animals after several years? Answer: He had quite a big herd.
Context: But to his great surprise, instead of seeing it droop its neck and drift to the shore, the Red Swan flapped its wings, rose slowly, and flew off with a majestic motion toward the falling sun. He was noted for his speed; for he would shoot an arrow and then run so fast that the arrow always fell behind him; and he now set off at his best speed of foot. " He sped on, over hills and prairies, toward the west, and was only going to take one more run, and then seek a place to sleep for the night, when, suddenly, he heard noises at a distance, like the murmur of waters against the shore. Question: Why did Maidwa walk towards the lodges of a large village? Answer: It was night.
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: What happened after Cairnech blessed the clans of Owen and of Niall? Answer: They returned to their own country.
Context: There was a man called Odshedoph, or the Child of Strong Desires, who had a wife and one son. Early in the evening he returned with a deer, and, being weary and athirst, he asked his son, whom he called Strong Desire, to go to the river for some water. Question: What did the wife do while the husband went out to hunt? Answer: fixed the lodge
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: What did Murmur Goose-Egg say when he heard the women no longer wanted him? Answer: He would gladly go his own gait.
Context: He said, with great dignity, "Thou hast heard, good man, of Thomas of Ercildoune--Thomas the Rhymer, as men call him. If he had been brought there to parley with Thomas the Rhymer, then had he laid himself open to all the eldrich Powers of Darkness. Question: Who was the stranger? Answer: Thomas the Rhymer
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: Who did the stepmother send with the son the next day? Answer: the second daughter
Context: She accordingly left him at the gathering-place of the wood, and returned to the lodge. "Cut it in two," he answered, "and season our pottage with one half of it at a time." Question: What did the boy want his sister to make once he had killed more birds? Answer: a coat
Context: thought Prince Milan, 'you might as well have put me to death at once.' Milan opened the window quickly, and as soon as the bee had entered, it changed into the beautiful Hyacinthia. Question: What did the Prince do until late evening? Answer: sat brooding over his cruel fate
Context: When he got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in his feet, so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him. He now hastened to the temples of Ise, where you will remember that he prayed before undertaking this long expedition. Question: What did Yamato do once he recovered? Answer: hastened to the temples of Ise
Context: The next morning, before dawn, the giant went to the forest again. " He told him what had happened at the giant's, and said that now he would go to the well in the church, if only he knew the way. Question: Why was the king's son not able to get the church-key? Answer: The church-key hung high in the tower.
Context: Now she began to think how she never minded her husband leaving her in the morning, and how she never found him neglecting to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just as she was going to bed. I am now obliged, whether I like or no, to go a three days' journey to the witch's castle, and marry her daughter. Question: Who was the egg-wife that gave the youngest princess counsel? Answer: the witch
Context: The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and that the dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge. Question: Why did the old man not see the cross face of his neighbor? Answer: He was so intent on his work.
Context: The tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company. They filled their pipes--and huge pipes they were--and such clouds they blew, that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night, in all the country round about, several hours before its time. Question: Why was Wassamo's wife tarried at home? Answer: to look after a son
Context: And all good children to whom he related this story, took great heed of this naughty Cupid; but he made fools of them still, for he is astonishingly cunning. When the young maidens come from being examined by the clergyman, or go to church to be confirmed, there he is again close behind them. Question: Where does cupid sit at the play? Answer: on the great chandelier
Context: So they took him to be christened, and the parson said: 'You'll never be able to put that child in a decent bed on account of his prickles.' When the farmer came home he gave his wife and the maid the things they had asked for, and then he went behind the stove and gave Jack my Hedgehog the bagpipes. Question: Why did the parson tell the farmer he would never be able to put his son in a decent bed? Answer: on account of his prickles
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: Why did the young man place the wreath upon his brow? Answer: as his first trophy in the North
Context: One morning Pryderi and Manawyddan rose up to hunt, and loosened their dogs, which ran before them. 'We must see what is in that bush,' said Pryderi, and what was in it was a boar, with a skin as white as the snow on the mountains. Question: Why were the dogs scared when they came to a small bush? Answer: They saw a boar.
Context: Then she had to sit down and remain seated, for the chair had power to hold fast all that approached it. And when she heard that she promised to let him have the sword, if he would release her. Question: What happened because the witch sat in the chair? Answer: She remained seated.
Context: The young man glanced up in surprise, and asked who was there. 'Look close, and you will see me among the reeds in the form of a little green frog. Question: What is the brownie of the lake capable of? Answer: can turn into any shape that he chooses to be. Can also be invisible if he wants
Context: Not until long afterward was she altogether herself, and she told how she had firmly believed that her sweetheart himself, and all their friends and relatives had been there. He took her straight back to the village with him, and so that they need fear no such deviltry in the future, they celebrated their wedding while she was still clad in the bridal outfit of the underground folk. Question: How were the fellow and his sweetheart able to not fear such deviltry in the future? Answer: He took her straight back to the village with him.
Context: "Now you have delivered me," said he, "for the old woman, with whom you and your master have been dealing, is a witch, and she turned me into a lizard, and my brother and sister into a dog and cat." She was actually on the way to throw us into the sea and drown us; but if any one were to appear and want to buy us, she had to sell us for four shillings apiece, that had been agreed upon. Question: Where was the prince's house? Answer: a high hill in the distance
Context: He left his boy to take care of the lodge while he was absent, hunting and roaming about from place to place, striving to forget his misfortune, and searching for the wicked Weendigo. He shot another, which was lost in the same way; and returning to the lodge to replenish his quiver, he happened to espy one of the lucky arrows, which the first Weendigo had given to his father, hanging upon the side of the lodge. Question: Why did the hunter hunt and roam about from place to place? Answer: to forget his misfortune
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. Let us follow him, and see from what part of the world he cometh." Question: What did Earl St. Clair do after his companion left him? Answer: touched the sacred Sign and his trembling lips muttered prayers for protection
Context: At midnight of the seventh day, as Sentaro knelt in the temple, the door of the innermost shrine flew open. You think that you would like to become a hermit so as to find the Elixir of Life. I will send you to the country of Perpetual Life, where death never comes-where the people live forever!" Question: Why did Jofuku think Sentaro could not become a hermit? Answer: Sentaro was found of good living and of every comfort.
Context: "It was all very strange," answered the inn-keeper, "and my mother who had been very busy in his house, came home and fell into a violent fever. She came to on the very day when the news of Sir Wang's death was made public, and said: 'I have been to the Nether World and I met him there. Question: How did Wang's wife feel about her husband's death? Answer: sad
Context: She went to the parsonage, and begged that she might be taken into service there. All the children liked her very much, but when they spoke about dress and grandeur and beauty she would shake her head. Question: What did Karen do while the pastor read aloud from the Bible? Answer: sat quiet
Context: One Christmas the two women agreed that they would ride to Christmas night mass, and whichever one of them woke up at the right time was to call the other, for in those days there was no such thing as a watch. It was a piece of this kind that the woman took and put in her pocket, in order to eat it underway. Question: Why did the women need to wake each other up? Answer: In those days, there was no such thing as a watch.
Context: The Dragon King did as he was bid, and the warrior noticed that he had only three arrows left in his quiver. Again the arrow hit the mark, it struck the centipede right in the middle of its head, only to glance off and fall to the ground. Question: Why did the arrows not hurt the centipede? Answer: The centipede was invulnerable to weapons.
Context: For three days Gopani- Kufa returned the same answer to the king, and, at last, with tears in his eyes, Insato gave him the Mirror, which was of polished iron, saying: 'Take Sipao, then, O Gopani- Kufa, and may thy wishes come true. Gopani-Kufa was greatly rejoiced, and, taking farewell of the king, said to the Mirror:  'Sipao, Sipao, I wish to be back upon the Earth again!' Question: What was Gopani-Kufa's first wish? Answer: to return back on earth
Context: He tried to feed it a few bread-crumbs,
but the little dog only sniffed at them and let them lie. When the
night had passed the scholar feared it might have run away; but there
it lay, curled up as before. Question: How did the scholar feel when he felt the hunting dog might run away? Answer: scared
Context: Then they took counsel together, and watched her to see what she did. Then she threw herself on her knees by the edge, and peered into the dark water, but the trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it. Question: Why didn't the fish come after the youngest sister called for it? Answer: The fish was eaten by her sisters.
Context: You may be sure no other body went near it; and when the early risers were passing next morning they found two long clefts in the stone where it was, after burning itself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. Well, I suppose before they were married Gilla got some man like Pat Mara of Tomenine to larn him the "principles of politeness," fluxions, gunnery, and fortifications, decimal fractions, practice, and the rule-of-three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up a conversation with the royal family. Question: What did the early risers find the next morning? Answer: two long clefts in the stone where it was
Context: He proceeded toward the lodge, met the female as had been foretold to him, and became an elk. Soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners, he ventured to lay his head on her lap, and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber. Question: How did the sixth giant assure herself White Feather was asleep? Answer: She pushed his head aside.
Context: Well, we had everything of the best, and plenty of it; and we ate, and we drank, and we danced, and the young master, by the same token, danced with Peggy Barry, from the Bohereen--a lovely young couple they were, though they are both low enough now. Well, I thought, for all that, in myself, I'd just step to Molly Cronohan's, the fairy woman, to speak a word about the bracket heifer that was bewitched; and so, as I was crossing the stepping-stones of the ford of Ballyashenogh, and was looking up at the stars, an  blessing myself--for why? Question: Who did the young master dance with? Answer: Peggy Barry
Context: In a city in the neighborhood of Kaiutschou there once lived a constable by the name of Dung. One day when he returned from a hunt after thieves the twilight had already begun to fall. Question: How did Dung know that the man was a member of his profession? Answer: saw a man in a red hat dressed as a constable
Context: Now when the battle was over and the youth had disappeared, the courtier crawled down from his tree, and threatened to kill the princess if she did not say before all the people that he, and none other, had rescued her. The king's daughter did not dare refuse, since she feared for her life. Question: Why did the princess not dare refuse the courtier's demands? Answer: She feared for her life.
Context: At last one morning, after the girl had been lying awake all night thinking of her husband, she said to her friend the snake:  'You have all shown me much kindness, but now I am well again, and want to go home and hear some news of my husband, and if he still mourns for me!' Now the heart of the snake was sad at her words, but he only said:  'Yes, thus it must be; go and bid farewell to my father and mother, but if they offer you a present, see that you take nothing but my father's ring and my mother's casket.' Question: How did the mother and father feel after the girl decided to leave? Answer: sad
Context: "Sister," said he, one day, as he paraded up and down before the lodge, enjoying his new coat, and fancifying himself the greatest little fellow in the world-as he was, for there was no other beside him-"My sister, are we really alone in the world, or are we playing at it? That if he would live blameless and not endanger his life, he must never go where they were. Question: Why did the girl warn her brother not to go to a certain other quarter of the earth? Answer: The people who lived in a certain other quarter of the earth had killed off all of their kinsfolk.
Context: The debtor proved to be an old miser, who lived at the other end of the village. He stopped and asked her what was the matter, and she answered between her sobs that her husband was dying, and, to make matters worse, a creditor whom he could not pay was anxious to have him taken to prison. Question: Why was the poor woman crying bitterly? Answer: Her husband was dying and a creditor whom he could not pay was anxious to have him taken to prison.
Context: Hase-Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke, and promised to do all that she was told. There is a proverb which says "As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred," and so Hase-Hime grew up as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess, though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss of her mother. Question: What kind of heart did Princess Terute have? Answer: cruel, bad heart
Context: nan Question: How did the second woman make her husband believe the most impossible thing? Answer: She told him that he was not her husband.
Context: A WIDOW had two daughters; one was pretty and industrious, the other was ugly and lazy. Now it happened once that as the spindle was bloody, she dipped it into the well to wash it; but it slipped out of her hand and fell in. Question: What did the step-mother tell the girl to do after the spindle fell in? Answer: go and fetch it out again
Context: Once upon a time, in the city of Shansi, there lived a scholar who
found the company of others too noisy for him. Yet he suffered because there were always so many
gnats and fleas in his room that he could not sleep at night. Question: Why did the scholar suffer? Answer: There were always so many gnats and fleas in his room that he could not sleep at night.
Context: When the fifth day of the eight had passed, it was plain to her that there was a child in the egg, which kept on calling: "Herring and mush, porridge and milk," and so she punched a hole in the egg. It was quite disgustingly homely, with a big head and a small body. Question: What came out of the egg? Answer: a child
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: Where did the girl come to after wandering for a time? Answer: a large, large wood
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: What happened no matter how far the girl went? Answer: She could not reach its end.
Context: I shall be happier in my present state than I could have been as a man. I will cheer you by my songs, and strive to inspire in others the joy and lightsomeness of heart I feel in my present state. Question: What did Iadilla do after he caroled one of his sweetest songs? Answer: flew away into a neighboring wood
Context: Young man, the errand you are bound on is beset with trials and difficulties. But powerful Indians, warriors of a distant chief, came and told him that their chief's daughter was on the brink of the grave, and that she herself requested his wampum-cap, which she was confident would save her life. ' Question: What happened after the magician took the wampum-cap off? Answer: The crown of his head was bare and bloody.
Context: Young man, the errand you are bound on is beset with trials and difficulties. But powerful Indians, warriors of a distant chief, came and told him that their chief's daughter was on the brink of the grave, and that she herself requested his wampum-cap, which she was confident would save her life. ' Question: Who is the Red Swan? Answer: the daughter of a magician
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: If you had only held out until the end of the year, I would have been delivered. I have a step-mother who has cast a spell on me, so that by day I am a bear, and at night a human being. Question: Where did the step-mother live? Answer: east of the sun and west of the moon
Context: As he stood musing on this fairy spectacle, a strange noise came to his ear from a distance. He then stood with his bow dropped at his side, lost in wonder, gazing at the beautiful bird. At any other time he would have shrunk from opening his father's medicine-sack, but something prompted him to believe that there was no wrong now. He feared, as he returned, that the swan must by this time have taken wing. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. " Maidwa, that he might meet his brothers, rescued two of the magic arrows from the water; and although the third was borne off, he had a hope yet to recover that too, and to be master of the swan. He passed on, and when he emerged from the forest, the sun was just falling below the edge of the sky. Question: Why did Maidwa bent on success in pursuit of the swan? Answer: The Red Swan was beautiful.
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: What did the poor man do when he saw the woman? Answer: stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder
Context: In the long time ago, Conchubar, son of Ness, was King of Ulster, and he held his court in the palace of Emain Macha. So she said to Fergus, "Let Conchubar hold the kingdom for a year, so that his children after him may be called the children of a king. Question: Who was the son of Ness? Answer: Conchubar
Context: She was wholly occupied in this employment, without a thought of danger, when, all of a sudden, the king of the buffalos came dashing on with his herd of followers, and making sure of her by means of her drooping tresses, he placed her upon the back of one of his favorite buffalos, and away he cantered over the plains. To the king himself she paid no heed, and although he breathed forth to her every soft and gentle word he could think of, she sat still and motionless for all the world like one of the lowly bushes by the door of her father's lodge, when the summer wind has died away. Question: Why did the king of the buffalos place the daughter upon the back of one of his favorite buffalos? Answer: to make sure of her by means of her drooping tresses
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: What did Morraha give the Slender Red Champion? Answer: the Sword of Light
Context: There were once five-and-twenty tin soldiers, who were all brothers, for they had been made out of the same old tin spoon. They shouldered arms and looked straight before them, and wore a splendid uniform, red and blue. Question: Why did one of the tin soldiers only have one leg? Answer: they ran out of melted tin
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: Why did the goblins' shouts of triumphs begin to die away? Answer: Their keen ears heard a sound which filled their hearts with dread.
Context: The giants used to put--each man of them--a shout of him every evening. There's some change in the caher[2] to-night," said the gentleman, when he heard the two shouts. Question: What did the second giant give the son? Answer: the old sword under his bed
Context: When evening came, the other tin soldiers were all placed in the box, and the people of the house went to bed. The tin soldiers rattled in their box; they wanted to get out and join the amusements, but they could not open the lid. Question: What did the canary do when it woke up? Answer: began to talk in poetry
Context: The tobacco was now divided in equal shares among the company. They filled their pipes--and huge pipes they were--and such clouds they blew, that they rushed forth out of the lodge and brought on night, in all the country round about, several hours before its time. Question: What did Wassamo's name change to? Answer: Feather of Flames, Wassamo of the Fire-Plume
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: Why was the stranger woman missing? Answer: She ran away.
Context: 'Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wanted one?' Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find, and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it, and his sister had no home to go to. Question: How did the sister take care of her wounded arm? Answer: bathed her arm carefully, and bound on it some healing leaves that grew near by, and wrapped a cloth round the leaves, and went to hide in the forest
Context: 'With that, my dear, he took up the goose by the two wings--criss o' my cross an you,' says he, markin' her to grace with the blessed sign at the same minute. Away she went down there, right in front of you, along the side o' the cliff, and flew over Saint Kavin's bed (that is, where Saint Kavin's bed is now, but was not then, by reason as it wasn't made, but was contrived after by Saint Kavin himself, that the women might leave him alone). Question: Who made the cliff in the mountain? Answer: Finn Ma Cool
Context: And when they answered that nobody had ever before seen such lovely princesses he seemed quite annoyed. "Your Majesty," replied the Prince, "will find in that crystal chair a little white cat, which has such soft paws, and mews so prettily, that I am sure you will be charmed with it." Question: What will the majesty find in that crystal chair? Answer: a little white cat
Context: As it was a hot summer's day, the rebel was nothing loath to take a plunge in the river, while his enemy was still swimming down the stream the Prince turned back and landed with all possible haste. As soon as he had landed and donned his clothes, the Prince came forward and asked him to cross swords with him to prove his skill, saying:  "Let us two prove which is the better swordsman of the two!" Question: What did Yamato do with the wooden sword? Answer: put his wooden sword in place of the keen steel sword of Takeru
Context: The giant passed on before me and crossed Eas Roe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhuirn, without wetting his foot. He was followed by Caoilte Mac Ronan, together with the swiftest of the Fenians. They enquired what was the cause of the delay that the giant had not been slain. ' Question: Where did the giant pass before Fionn could reach him? Answer: Eas Roe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhurin
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: What was the character of the old man? Answer: Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit
Context: But the Wheelbarrow was of a different opinion; and the Wheelbarrow was looked upon as of some consequence, for he considered himself a quarter of a coach, because he went about upon one wheel. "I must submit to your notice," he said, "that the name 'maiden' is common enough, and not nearly so refined as 'hand-rammer,' or 'stamper,' which latter has also been proposed, and through which you would be introduced into the category of seals; and only think of the great stamp of state, which impresses the royal seal that gives effect to the laws! Question: what does the wheelbarrow think the maiden should surrender? Answer: her maiden name
Context: THERE was once an old goat who had seven little ones, and was as fond of them as ever mother was of her children. "Dear children," said she, "I am going out into the wood; and while I am gone, be on your guard against the wolf, for if he were once to get inside he would eat you up, skin, bones, and all. Question: Why did the old goat warn the little goats to be on their guard against the wolf? Answer: For if he were once to get inside, he would eat up the skin and bones of the little goats.
Context: They were moving by encampments, for he saw, at several spots, the poles where they had passed. He looked upon the beautiful female with a longing gaze; but she lay as cold and silent as when he had found her upon the scaffold. Question: Why did Kwasynd ask Bokwewa to restore the beautiful young woman? Answer: She was dead.
Context: She shut herself up in the nut-cellar while Mr. Jackson pulled out the Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Then they set forth, but the news of their coming ran swifter still. In the place where they were wont to see cattle, and herds, and dwellings, they beheld neither house nor beast, nor man nor smoke. Question: What happened after light shone on Rhiannon, Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi again? Answer: They were the only ones in the green place.
Context: A little back from the high road there stands a house which is called 'Hemgard.' But on the other side of the garden there is a lake, and beyond the lake is a village, and all around stretch meadows and fields, now yellow, now green. Question: Where did Kuckeliku live? Answer: in the hen house
Context: When he had come into the village, he told them how Wassamo had disappeared. At the cousin's request, many of the men visited the fish-fire. Question: Why did some of the men think that it was impossible for the cousin to kill Wassamo? Answer: Wassamo and the cousin were like brothers.
Context: Hase-Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke, and promised to do all that she was told. There is a proverb which says "As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred," and so Hase-Hime grew up as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess, though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss of her mother. Question: How did Hase-Hime grow up? Answer: as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess
Context: "And as for the narrow road, all hampered and hindered by the thorns and the briars, there be few that be troubled to ask where that leadeth to. "And, mark'ee, Thomas, if ever thou hopest to see thine own Tower of Ercildoune again, take care of thy tongue when we reach our journey's end, and speak no single word to anyone save me--for the mortal who openeth his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever." Question: Why didn't folks ask where the narrow road led to? Answer: The road had thorns and briars.
Context: Then Hidesato called to the Dragon King to come out with him on the balcony, for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear. The single bag of rice, however much was taken from it day after day for the meals of the knight and his whole family, never grew less-the supply in the bag was inexhaustible. Question: What happened to Hidesato because he killed the centipede? Answer: He became very rich and prosperous
Context: "If they buy three cords of birch-wood," said the witch,--"but it must be full measure, and they must not bargain for it--and throw the first cord into the water, billet by billet, when the first breaker strikes, and the second cord, billet by billet, when the second breaker strikes, and the third cord, billet by billet, when the third breaker strikes, then it is all up with us!" said the wives of the quartermasters; "but there is no one who knows it," they cried, and laughed loudly, and with that they flew out of the hatchway, screaming and croaking like ravens. Question: What was the sound of the groaning? Answer: The witches were hurt.
Context: He began to feel hungry, so he opened his bag and took out one of the rice-cakes and sat down under a tree by the side of the road to eat it. If you leave me all the cakes you have in your bag you may go; otherwise I will bite you till I kill you!" Question: Where did Momotaro sit to eat his rice-cake? Answer: under a tree by the side of the road
Context: I do not believe she told them every last thing there was to tell. And this grieved her, for she did want to see him so very much, and she was alone through the day, and it was very dreary and lonely. Question: What happened because the maiden spoke to her mother alone? Answer: She had to tell just how things were.
Context: "Let the devil fetch the water, I'm far too handsome to bother with it!" When the king arrived, and saw the swart, homely kitchen-maid, he grew red and white in turn; but when he heard the people say she was the greatest beauty in twelve kingdoms, he had to believe, willy-nilly, that there was something in it, and he did not want to be unjust to Mike by the Stove, who had taken so much trouble to find her. Question: How did the cook feel when she realized that the face in the water was that of the princess? Answer: angry
Context: The old man did not in the least wish to lend it to his cruel neighbor, but he was too kind to refuse. So the envious man carried home the mortar, but he never brought it back. Question: What was the neighbor doing when the old man came to look for his mortar? Answer: sitting by a big fire made of pieces of wood
Context: The hunter's son followed, and having come to the tree, he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part. In the course of the evening he asked his father to make him a new bow; and when he was questioned as to the use he could find for two bows, he answered that one might break or get lost. Question: Why did the hunter's son ask for another bow from his father? Answer: So that his friend would have a bow.
Context: Fourteen long years went by, and people were beginning to forget that Thomas the Rhymer had ever been in Fairy-land; but at last a day came when Scotland was at war with England, and the Scottish army was resting by the banks of the Tweed, not far from the Tower of Ercildoune. And the Master of the Tower determined to make a feast, and invite all the Nobles and Barons who were leading the army to sup with him. Question: What did Thomas want to do while there was a war? Answer: make a feast, and invite all the Nobles and Barons
Context: As often as he wearied of climbing, for even a squirrel can not climb forever, he repeated the little ceremony of the bones; but whenever he came near the lodge and put forth his hand to touch it, the tree would shoot up as before, and carry the lodge up far beyond his reach. At length the bones being all gone, and the lodge well-nigh out of sight, he began to despair, for the earth, too, had long since vanished entirely from his view. Question: What did Ownee do when the bones were gone and the lodge was well-nigh out of sight? Answer: began to despair
Context: "Yes, it is a very valuable whistle," said Esben, "and I will not sell it," but at last, as a favor to her, he said he would let her have it if she gave him two hundred dollars, and a kiss for every dollar to boot. On the following day the queen herself set out, and she felt quite sure that she would succeed in coaxing the whistle away from him. Question: Why did the queen set out the following day? Answer: She felt quite sure that she would succeed in coaxing the whistle away from Esben.
Context: He was soon, having already yielded to temptation by the way, overcome by their fair looks and soft speeches, and he was not long afterward seen beating corn with the women, having entirely abandoned all further quest for his lost wife. Meantime, Bokwewa, alone in the lodge, often musing upon the discourse of the spirit-wife, who was gone, waited patiently his brother's return. Question: How will the wife feel about Kwasynd abandoning his quest to find her? Answer: sad
Context: That very moment the wood was alive with dwarfs, all of them asking with one voice: "What are my lord's commands? They showed him the way, and he reached his goal quickly and without trouble, for no one interfered with him. Question: What happened when Mike by the Stove entered the troll's castle? Answer: The princesses acted as though they had lost their wits, ran around like frightened lambs, and finally turned into three lemons.
Context: The emperor was greatly pleased, and announced a large reward for the man who was competent to go to the dragon-castle as his messenger. But the wise man said: "A great-great-great-great-grandfather of yours once slew more than a hundred of the dragons of the Eastern Sea, and was finally himself slain by the dragons. Question: Why didn't the wise man allow Pi-Lo to go to the dragon-castle? Answer: The dragons were the enemies of his family.
Context: At last she pitied him, and removed the charm, and the horns dropped down on the ground, and he would have killed her on the spot, only he was as weak as water, and his fellow-servants came in and carried him up to the big house. Well, the witch's daughter heard about it too, and she came to see the strange girl; and what did she find her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper; and as she cut away, the paper became the richest silk she ever saw. Question: Why did the witch's daughter want the scissors? Answer: The scissors turned the paper into silk.
Context: For many days life went on like a beautiful dream to the charcoal-burner and his wife. But when his eyes rested on the woman, they took on a look which seemed to say 'I knew it,' though this neither the charcoal-burner nor his wife ever noticed. Question: What were the gardens filled with? Answer: rare flowers and fruits and singing birds
Context: The winter was nearly passed away, when, one evening, the hunter was abroad later than usual. The moment he came in and laid down his day's hunt, as was his custom, before his wife, the two females seized upon the deer and began to tear off the fat in so unceremonious a way that her anger was excited. Question: Why could the hunter not compose himself to sleep? Answer: The sighs and sobs of the two females were incessant.
Context: The boar was pleased at the flattery and determined to help the monkey. "Why the mother will be in a tremendous scare, and before your master and mistress know what to do, you must run after me and rescue the child and take it home safely to its parents, and you will see that when the butcher comes they won't have the heart to sell you." Question: How did the boar plan to help the monkey? Answer: seize the child and run off with it
Context: It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face, and they looked at each other in silence. Then tears rose in the eyes of the elder, but winking them hastily away, he said:  'Brother, it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am; you can see that for yourself. Question: How will the elder son feel after his brother gives him the houses? Answer: happy
Context: Then the door was opened to him, and he went in, and rested the whole night long on his soft bed. But the sister was very terrified when she saw that her fawn was wounded. When the King saw him, he said to his hunters,  "Now, follow him up all day long till the night comes, and see that you do him no hurt." Question: Why was the sister terrified when the fawn came home? Answer: because he was wounded
Context: Jack remained here for many days, doing nothing, and-as far as anybody knew-eating nothing. This conduct puzzled his brothers greatly, and they put such constant questions to him, that at length he told them the secret of the table, and even gave a dinner to them, which far outdid any they had ever seen or heard of. Question: How did the king react to Jack's message? Answer: laughed till his sides ached
Context: Now Sentaro determined to set out to find the hermits, and if he could, to become one, so that he might obtain the water of perpetual life. So he left his old home to the care of his relatives, and started out on his quest. Question: Why did Sentaro want to become a hermit? Answer: He might obtain the water of perpetual life.
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: What did the daughter hear while watching the son? Answer: every music more excellent than another
Context: The Daimio was so transported with joy that he looked as if he would go mad. He himself gave the old man a wine cup filled with the best SAKE, and rewarded him with much silver and gold and many other precious things. Question: How was the old man rewarded? Answer: silver and gold and many other precious things
Context: In the Skalunda mountain, near the church, there once lived a giant in the early days, who no longer felt comfortable after the church had been built there. He decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells; so he emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea. Question: What did the giant and several men from the shipwreck have in common? Answer: They are from Skalunda.
Context: "Now I am mounting straight up to the sun," said a voice in the flames; and it was as if a thousand voices echoed the words as the flames darted up through the chimney and went out at the top. Then a number of tiny beings, as many as the flowers on the flax had been, and invisible to mortal eyes, floated above the children. Question: What did the little beings do on the ashes? Answer: danced
Context: In a little village that stood on a wide plain, where you could see the sun from the moment he rose to the moment he set, there lived two couples side by side. The men, who worked under the same master, were quite good friends, but the wives were always quarrelling, and the subject they quarrelled most about was--which of the two had the stupidest husband. Question: Why were the two wives different from most women? Answer: Unlike most women who think that anything that belongs to them must be better than anyone else, they each thought their own husband was more foolish than the other.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Where did the Fairy send Sylvia? Answer: the court of Iris
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: What did the giant say he would give Tom? Answer: a fife that nobody could help dancing when he was playing it
Context: "I'll call to him," she replied, "to come up to Cullamore and refresh himself, and maybe that will give you and Finn time to think of some plan to get yourselves out of the scrape. "I'll do that with a heart and a half," replied Oonagh; "and, indeed, Granua, I feel myself under great obligations to you for your kindness in keeping him off us till we see what can be done; for what would become of us all if anything happened to Finn, poor man!" Question: What happened after Oonagh threw the miscaun? Answer: The miscaun fell about half-way between the two hills at the edge of the Broad Bog, near Augher.
Context: Once upon a time there was a youth called Moti, who was very big and strong, but the clumsiest creature you can imagine. Now a serai, you must know, is generally just a large square enclosed by a high wall with an open colonnade along the inside all round to accommodate both men and beasts, and with perhaps a few rooms in towers at the corners for those who are too rich or too proud to care about sleeping by their own camels and horses. Question: What did Moti need to do with the fifty silver pieces? Answer: take them and go and make his living or his fortune
Context: It took the senator several months to recover from the shame and humiliation of this escapade; and, curiously enough, he never had the slightest idea what had induced him to act in so extraordinary a manner. Perhaps it was fortunate the last bonbon had now been eaten, for they might easily have caused considerably more trouble than they did. Question: What did Claribel do when she lost her box of bonbons? Answer: went again to the wise chemist and signed a check for another box of magic bonbons
Context: In the old time wise women were burnt, and poets went about with empty stomachs, and very much out at elbows. You can read it in the fruits of the earth, you can draw it from the flowing and the standing water. Question: Why wasn't the young man able to write poems according to the wise woman? Answer: Because his ear is not sharpened to hear and he does not say the Lord's Prayer in the evening.
Context: "Let the devil fetch the water, I'm far too handsome to bother with it!" When the king arrived, and saw the swart, homely kitchen-maid, he grew red and white in turn; but when he heard the people say she was the greatest beauty in twelve kingdoms, he had to believe, willy-nilly, that there was something in it, and he did not want to be unjust to Mike by the Stove, who had taken so much trouble to find her. Question: Why did the king have the cook washed and bedizened? Answer: to make her look more beautiful
Context: Just as I was falling asleep last night, I heard a horse's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door, and there, when I came out, was a fine-looking dark man, mounted on a black horse, and he told me to get ready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. The lady clapped her hands, and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and the baby, and praised me, and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over. Question: What did the lady give to the neighbor? Answer: a bottle of green ointment
Context: Well, my child, I am sorry to say that all I know of him is that he lives in the castle that is east of the sun and west of the moon, and that you will probably never get there. And finally she gave the maiden the golden reel, for, said the old woman, it might be useful to her. Question: What did the old woman loan the maiden? Answer: her horse
Context: shrieked Moti, and ran up and, just as the tiger, in astonishment, dropped a bone--whack! Men gathered in groups talking and exclaiming, and finding fault with the innkeeper for allowing such a dangerous beast into the serai, and all the while the innkeeper was just as troubled as the rest, and none dared go near the place where the tiger stood blinking miserably on everyone, and where Moti lay stretched out snoring like thunder. Question: How did Moti feel after he saw the tiger? Answer: surprised
Context: At last the venerable dormouse himself undertook it, for the very good reason that no one else would. That is the reason why it is now one of the tiniest creatures upon the earth. In this business he was very expert, and he had a new bird-skin coat made, which was prettier than the one he had worn before. Question: What did the boy do after he discovered the sun had escaped his snare? Answer: went out and shot ten more snow-birds and he had a new bird-skin coat made
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: What did that good old Father do while the son began to dart? Answer: low kneel'd
Context: "And as for the narrow road, all hampered and hindered by the thorns and the briars, there be few that be troubled to ask where that leadeth to. "And, mark'ee, Thomas, if ever thou hopest to see thine own Tower of Ercildoune again, take care of thy tongue when we reach our journey's end, and speak no single word to anyone save me--for the mortal who openeth his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever." Question: Why would folks set out along the narrow road if they asked where it led to? Answer: The road led to a glorious city.
Context: Some of the walls were four feet thick, and there used to be queer noises inside them, as if there might be a little secret staircase. Certainly there were odd little jagged doorways in the wainscot, and things disappeared at night--especially cheese and bacon. Question: What kind of things often disappeared at night? Answer: cheese and bacon
Context: The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. Here he met with another outlaw named Idzumo Takeru who he knew had done much harm in the land. Question: Why did the rebel agree to swim in the river? Answer: It was a hot summer's day.
Context: She did not put any more nuts into the woodpecker's hole, because she had always doubted how they could be got out again. "I am sure I beg your pardon; I did not not know that anybody lived here," said Mrs. Goody Tiptoes; "but where is Chippy Hackee? Question: Where did Goody Tiptoes hide the nuts? Answer: under a tree root
Context: I will tell you what the sparrow told me, and the sparrow heard it from an aged willow which stood--and still stands for that matter--close to the field of buckwheat. Its trunk is split clear through the middle, and grass and blackberry tendrils creep out through the cleft. Question: Where does the willow stand? Answer: close to the field of buckwheat
Context: Suddenly the door of the room flew open and the draught of air caught up the little dancer, she fluttered like a sylph right into the stove by the side of the tin soldier, and was instantly in flames and was gone. The tin soldier melted down into a lump, and the next morning, when the maid servant took the ashes out of the stove, she found him in the shape of a little tin heart. Question: What happened to the little dancer? Answer: she fluttered into the stove and burned
Context: The king enjoined it upon the others in the lodge as a special edict, on pain of instant death, to give to Aggo's daughter every thing that she wanted, and to be careful not to displease her. The king himself went out hunting to obtain the most dainty meats, both of animals and wild fowl, to pleasure her palate; and he treated her every morning to a ride upon one of the royal buffalos, who was so gentle in his motions as not even to disturb a single one of the tresses of the beautiful hair of Aggo's daughter as she paced along. Question: Why did the king enjoin a special edict on the pain of instant death? Answer: to give to Aggo's daughter every thing that she wanted
Context: The hunter, on entering, found his son sitting by the fire, very quiet and unconcerned, although he saw that all the articles of the lodge were lying thrown about in all directions. The hunter was not satisfied until his son had shown him how he played with the blanket, which he did so adroitly as to set his father laughing, and at last drive him out of the lodge with the great clouds of ashes that he raised. Question: Why did the hunter agree to his son's request to kill two deer? Answer: He had always humored the boy.
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: What did the son do when the grass was getting scarce? Answer: He drove the cows further out.
Context: But though the knight rode very fast the ogre ran faster, and to his disappointment he found himself unable to overtake the monster, who was gradually lost to sight. Stooping to pick it up he found that it was one of the ogre's huge arms which he must have slashed off in the fight. Question: Why did Watanabe carry the arm home? Answer: have as a trophy of his victory
Context: The guests listened breathlessly, for they felt that they would never hear such wonderful music again. For that very night, after all the Nobles had gone back to their tents, a soldier on guard saw, in the moonlight, a snow-white Hart and Hind moving slowly down the road that ran past the camp. Question: Why did the soldier call to his officer to come and look at the animals? Answer: There was something so unusual about the animals.
Context: It is I who cast the charm over thy lands, to avenge Gwawl the son of Clud my friend. They begged me to change them also into the shape of mice, that they might take part in avenging Gwawl. Question: Why did the bishop decide to break the spell he casted? Answer: Manawyddan took his wife.
Context: He found himself, according to his ideas, in the land of Topsyturvydom. All the things to which he had been accustomed as food they rejected. People who swallowed them with the hope of dying only found that in a short time they felt better in health instead of worse. Question: Why did the poisons not work at the land of Perpetual Life? Answer: They could not die there.
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What did the Queen hang around the Prince's neck? Answer: a little cross
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: What did the country folk believe the Hard and Hind were? Answer: messengers from the Elfin Queen
Context: The son took this fatherly advice all in good part, except that portion which enjoined upon him to abstain from staying his stomach; but over that he made a number of wry faces, for the brother of the two wicked sisters had, among numerous noble gifts, a very noble appetite. Onwee finding that he was closely followed, climbed up into one of the tallest trees, and shot forth the magic arrows with which he had provided himself. Question: What did Onwee do when he found that he was closely followed? Answer: climbed up into one of the tallest trees, and shot forth the magic arrows with which he had provided himself
Context: Three or four other bees
put their heads out, and buzzed fiercely. He was sitting all over a small rocking-chair, twiddling his thumbs and
smiling, with his feet on the fender. Question: Where did Mr. Jackson live? Answer: in a drain below the hedge, in a very dirty wet ditch
Context: At last one morning, after the girl had been lying awake all night thinking of her husband, she said to her friend the snake:  'You have all shown me much kindness, but now I am well again, and want to go home and hear some news of my husband, and if he still mourns for me!' Now the heart of the snake was sad at her words, but he only said:  'Yes, thus it must be; go and bid farewell to my father and mother, but if they offer you a present, see that you take nothing but my father's ring and my mother's casket.' Question: What did the mother and father offer to the girl? Answer: gold and jewels
Context: Now it chanced one day, as the king's daughter was sitting alone in her room, that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared. But the queen had the last word in the end, and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess, even though it be against her will. Question: How did the queen's daughter feel about the king's daughter's sorrow? Answer: vexed
Context: Soon after sunrise next day the prince's wife was standing on a little hill behind the house, when she saw a cloud of dust coming through the town. In any case they must not discover her there; so just bidding the ring prepare some food for them, she ran inside, and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face. Question: Why did the girl use the ring? Answer: She wanted to prepare food for the group.
Context: So they sent to the smith, and he forged a club of two hundred-weights. Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy himself, and forged himself a club of thirty hundred-weights. Question: What did Murmur take down the hill? Answer: knapsack
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: Why did Murtough say it was easier to give his beloved half of Ireland than to follow her wishes? Answer: Murtough feared that when those that were of the Christian faith were put out of his house, she would work her spells upon him, and no power would be left with him to resist those spells.
Context: The story went on, but the story-teller never once looked at the prince, even through her veil, though he on his side never moved his eyes from her. When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree, the king's son could restrain himself no longer. Question: What punishment did the girl want to give to her brother? Answer: put him out of the town
Context: Now Dick was more versed in giving blows than in making music. His first impulse was to seize the Sword, then, come what might, he had something in his hand to defend himself with. He blew a blast upon it, which, however, was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall. Question: Why didn't Canonbie Dick choose the Sword? Answer: The spirits might believe he was a threat.
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: Who did Kintoki leave behind when he died? Answer: his beautiful young wife
Context: "Oh, it is such a splendid and precious thing, that I cannot describe it," said the Mother-Toad. " "Well, I haven't got the jewel," said the smallest of the Toads; she was as ugly as a toad can be. " Question: How did the Mother-Frog describe the jewel? Answer: a splendid and precious thing
Context: Once upon a time there was a king who had three sons, who were all so clever and brave that he began to be afraid that they would want to reign over the kingdom before he was dead. Now the King, though he felt that he was growing old, did not at all wish to give up the government of his kingdom while he could still manage it very well, so he thought the best way to live in peace would be to divert the minds of his sons by promises which he could always get out of when the time came for keeping them. Question: Who were all so clever and brave that the king began to be afraid that they would want to reign over the kingdom before he was dead? Answer: the king's three sons
Context: The other had not the least objection, and accordingly the exchange was made, and our peasant became possessor of the goose. The crowd on the highroad had been gradually increasing, and there was quite a rush of men and cattle. Question: What happened as the peasant arrived near the town? Answer: The crowd on the highroad had been gradually increasing.
Context: The man set out as early as possible, and had not as yet reached town before he met the old woman with the basket. " I do not fare so badly this way," thought the man, "but when he sets out for himself, then the matter will probably turn out differently." Question: What lay in the second basket? Answer: a kitten
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: How did the old man and his wife feel when they saw the child? Answer: astonished
Context: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man was determined to sell him to the butcher. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he said to himself:  "Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Question: How did the monkey plan to stay alive? Answer: talk to the wise wild boar
Context: The farmer's trouble and patience was rewarded, for one fine day on going his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug for that purpose. When he reached the house the farmer said to his wife:  "I have at last caught the bad badger. Question: How did the farmer feel when he caught his enemy? Answer: delighted
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a Pussy-cat called Ribby, who invited a little dog called Duchess to tea. "Come in good time, my dear Duchess," said Ribby's letter, "and we will have something so very nice. Question: What is the name of the cat? Answer: Ribby
Context: They had not very far to go, but Moti's little pony, weighted with a heavy man and two big rocks, soon began to lag behind the cavalry, and would have lagged behind the infantry too, only they were not very anxious to be too early in the fight, and hung back so as to give Moti plenty of time. The young man jogged along more and more slowly for some time, until at last, getting impatient at the slowness of the pony, he gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the pony completely lost his temper and bolted. Question: Why did the pony walk slowly? Answer: It carried heavy man and two big rocks.
Context: Changed, but the same, with ghastly looks and arms that were withered, she appeared to her sons as they returned from the hunt, in the twilight, in the close of the day. Oftenest it was her bare brow, white, and bony, and bodyless, that they saw floating in the air, and making a mock of them in the wild paths of the forest, or in the midnight darkness of the lodge. Question: What did the sons and their father see when they looked back? Answer: the skull of a woman rolling along the beach
Context: And never having learned to control herself, she allowed this wicked thought to grow into the awful desire of taking her step-daughter's life. All his toys of warriors and heroes were spread out and she was telling him wonderful stories about each of them. Question: What were Hase-Hime and her brother doing? Answer: playing
Context: 'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given, and to whom they belong. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story, and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see. Question: How was the muleteer ungrateful and mean to the elder brother? Answer: The muleteer did not appreciate his help.
Context: On the eve of the day fixed for her marriage, Leelinau decked herself in her best garments. Her face was radiant with joy, and the parents, taking what she had said as her own fanciful way of expressing acquiescence in their plans, wished her good fortune in the happy meeting. Question: Who was Leelinau's fairy lover? Answer: the chieftain of the Green Plume
Context: The invited guests were already thronging round the table, when the head cook entered the room, bearing a beautiful wedding cake on a silver dish, and laid it before Prince Milan. Without pausing for a moment, Milan and Hyacinthia mounted him and galloped as fast as they could into the country of King Kojata. Question: What happened after Milian heard what the dove said? Answer: He jumped up suddenly from the table and ran to the door, where he found the beautiful Hyacinthia waiting for him.
Context: At length another man came that way, and the peasant asked him whether he would make wood in his stead, for it was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working. So the man took the ax and stood there making wood, and the peasant went into the devil's place himself, and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig. Question: Why did the peasant ask the man to make wood in his stead? Answer: It was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working.
Context: The bird then very sadly took up the wood and carried it home himself, and related to the mouse all he had seen and heard. They were both very troubled, but determined to look on the bright side of things, and still to remain together. Question: How did the bird and the mouse feel after hearing about the sausage's death? Answer: very troubled
Context: "It is not at all dignified for you to have such a creature as that following you!" asked Momotaro; and pushing aside the dog, he spoke to the monkey:  "Who are you?" Question: Why did the monkey find Momotaro? Answer: He heard of his expedition to the Island of the Devils.
Context: And then, one Sunday, the white bear actually came and told her that now she might make the trip to her parents. After they had gone a very long distance, they at length came to a fine, large, white house, before which her brothers and sisters were running about and playing. Question: How did the maiden get back to her parents' home? Answer: She seated herself on the bear's back.
Context: In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: What happened after the servants knocked at the door? Answer: The frozen breath on the window replied in Prince Milan's voice, 'I am coming directly.'
Context: But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what wanted. So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile, and said:  "Oh, Mr. Crocodile, isn't it a lovely day?" Question: How did the crocodile feel to see the hare? Answer: pleased
Context: So the fox followed behind and he was soon joined by the wolf, the bear, the stag, the lion, and all the beasts in the wood. Now in the brook there was a straw, and he said,  "I will lay myself across, so that you may pass over on me." Question: Why did the stone lay himself across the stream? Answer: The stone was touched with pity and wanted to help the cock.
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: What was in that country? Answer: a fiery dragon
Context: Ribby and Tabitha set to work to search the house thoroughly again. They even fetched a candle, and looked inside a clothes chest in one of the attics. Question: Where in the house did Ribby and Tabitha search? Answer: Ribby's umbrella
Context: I vowed that I would follow the Green Knight," he replied, "and I will carry out my vow, even if the venture leadeth me close to the nethermost world." He walked through their ranks till he came to the middle of the Circle; and there, seated at a table of red marble, was the Knight whom he had come so far to seek, clad in his grass-green robes. Question: What did the Knight do after he saw Earl Gregory? Answer: lifted it from the table, and handed it to him with a stately bow
Context: Yours is one of those deep-thinking natures, one of those highly gifted minds that astonishes the world." " I have not the slightest intention of doing so," said the snail. " Question: Who is the deep thinker? Answer: the snail
Context: That day the maiden again sat beneath the windows of the castle, and wound her golden reel. And that evening when the princess came to him with his night-cap, the prince pretended to drink it. Then, when the maiden came in, the prince was awake, and she had to tell him just how she had found the castle. Question: What did the maiden do when she came in and the prince was awake? Answer: told him just how she had found the castle
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: How did the Princess feel after Jack pricked her? Answer: disgraced
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: What did the King tell the servant to ask the strange creature? Answer: why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Where did the man go where no one would see him? Answer: an island
Context: "Don't stand there and laugh in such a stupid way," said the woman, "but come and help a poor, feeble old woman. He found it all very amusing, and said that if she had already been standing there a hundred years, then she could probably hold out for another hundred years or more. Question: How did the woman feel to be stuck in the tree? Answer: upset
Context: The man was very frightened at her words, and lay absolutely still while the undertaker came and measured him for his coffin; and his wife gave orders to the gravedigger about his grave. Everybody burst into shouts of laughter at the sight of him, and the men laid down the coffin and laughed too, till their sides nearly split. Question: What was the other husband dressed in to the funeral? Answer: nothing
Context: So the brother refrained from drinking, though his thirst was great, and he said he would wait till he came to the next brook. Then the sister said,  "O my brother, I pray drink not, or you will be turned into a fawn, and run away far from me." Question: What happened when the brother drank from the brook? Answer: he became a fawn
Context: But now the time was come for Sylvia to receive her gift, and all her companions were assembled. This lovely gift makes life a constant happiness to its possessor, and to all who are brought into contact with her. Question: What did the wish do to its possessor? Answer: made life a constant happiness
Context: It is a great pity you did not ask me for the cakes if you wanted them. Not long after this the old man accidentally scattered some of the ashes made by the burning of the mortar on the trees of his garden. Question: What did the good old man do with the ashes for the mortar? Answer: scattered some of the ashes on the trees of his garden
Context: Susan was very unhappy when she heard this, and so was the cat, who had been listening to the conversation behind the stove. When Simon went off to his work, the poor cat miawed so pitifully, and looked up so pathetically into Susan's face, that the woman quickly opened the door. Question: How did Susan and the cat feel after hearing what Simon has planned for the cat? Answer: unhappy
Context: He passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of the ships. "How cool I feel," said the boy, "I must be getting better"; and he sank into a delicious slumber. Question: How will the seamstress feel when she sees the ruby? Answer: happy
Context: The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmother sent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch. She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such a dinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn of the bracket bull. Question: Why did the husband say his wife must get whatever would save her? Answer: His wife had gone mad.
Context: Now the poor labourer was but a clumsy dancer, and he held back with a shamefaced air. He felt so happy that he had no longer the slightest desire to leave the Fairies' company. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: What will the Fairies do when they realized it is dawn? Answer: crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst
Context: And he went to sleep, and there was heavy sleep on him, and Morraha went in and took hold of the sword that was on the bed at his head. "Well," said the man, "let us sit down together till I tell the story. I would be laughing, and my wife would be asking me what was the reason of my laughing. Question: What did the man say to do till he told the story? Answer: sit down
Context: As a rule, nobody passed that way after dark, if they could possibly help it. He never remembered having seen any opening in the hillside there before. Question: Why did Canobie Dick feel a bit startled when he saw the entrance to the cavern? Answer: he never remembered having seen any opening in the hillside there before?
Context: The wife took the box, and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached. Never had she seen such a thing in her life, for she had been born and bred in the rural province of Echigo. Although there are none to be found in this out of the way place, yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times. Her breath was labored and she spoke with difficulty:  "My daughter. All you have to do is to make haste and get well-that will bring the greatest happiness to father and myself." Question: What will the wife give the daughter? Answer: the mirror
Context: I wandered and wandered about there, without knowing where I wandered, until at last I got into a big bog. Down it came with a pounce, and looked at me full in the face; and what was it but an eagle?--as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdom of Kerry! Question: Who looked at Daniel full in the face? Answer: an eagle
Context: But the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter. So she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way, and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them, and when he had done so he set forth. He took a roundabout way, the longest he could find, for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling, and the talk about marriage. Question: How did the youth feel to see the rat again? Answer: upset
Context: She dried her eyes quickly, and going to the cupboard took out the box that contained the mirror, her heart beating with expectation as she lifted the mirror out and gazed into its smooth face. It seemed to the girl that the face in the mirror must soon speak, almost that she heard the voice of her mother telling her again to grow up a good woman and a dutiful daughter, so earnestly did the eyes in the mirror look back into her own. Question: Who did the daughter think she saw in the mirror? Answer: her mother
Context: On the bridge over the canal stood three persons who wished to recommend themselves to the lamp, for they thought it could give the office to whomsoever it chose. The old lamp assured them that not one of them could give sufficient light to fill the position of a street lamp, but they would believe nothing that it said. Question: Which of the three could only give light at certain times? Answer: the glowworm
Context: Gopani-Kufa went back to his kraal, and with the new moon he returned again to the spot where he had saved the python. Gopani-Kufa at first was afraid, thinking of what the antelope had said, but finally he consented and followed Insato into the forest. Question: Why was Insato laying on the group sleeping? Answer: because he had a large meal
Context: Now amongst all the young men who wanted to marry Barbaik, the one whose heart was most set on her was her father's head man, but as his manners were rough and he was exceedingly ugly she would have nothing to say to him, and, what was worse, often made fun of him with the rest. Question: Why did Barbaik dislike her father's head man? Answer: His manners were rough and he was exceedingly ugly.
Context: He had seen the Toad in the grass, and stooped down and seized the little creature anything but gently. The Stork's beak pinched her, and the wind whistled; it was not exactly agreeable, but she was going upward--upward towards Egypt--and she knew it; and that was why her eyes gleamed, and a spark seemed to fly out of them. Question: What happened to the jewel? Answer: It became a sunbeam.
Context: But when he got home to the castle, one of his brothers was just getting married, and the bride and all the guests were already there. But the king's son would taste nothing, and only made haste in order to get away. Question: What did the people do because the king's son would not come into the castle? Answer: came out with food and drink
Context: So they went into Death's great greenhouse, where flowers and trees grew strangely into one another. In other places, there was a little dull flower in rich mould, with moss round about it, and it was so petted and nursed. Question: Where were all the plants growing? Answer: in Death's great greenhouse
Context: Who were beautiful beyond all telling? Question: two maidens Answer: the-two-scholars
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I do," she answered, "for all secret and mysterious things are known to me and thou and all the men of Erin are well known." And Duivsech, his wife, went crying along the road with her children around her to seek Bishop Cairnech, the half-brother of her husband, and her own soul-friend, that she might obtain help and shelter from him. Question: How will Murtough feel when he hears Sheen's wish? Answer: surprised
Context: So when they had reached the gentleman's house, and the peasant had given him the pig, he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so. And at night, when the peasant was fast asleep, the old woman came and took away his rooster, and put another in its place. Question: What happened because the peasant boasted to the old woman about his rooster? Answer: The old woman came and took away his rooster.
Context: Before many days had passed he reached the Southern Island, and then slowly but surely made his way to the head-quarters of the chiefs Kumaso and Takeru. Though the Prince was but a youth he had the wisdom of years, and, seeing that it was vain to try and lead his men further, he said to himself:  "To attempt to fight a battle in this impassable country unknown to my men only makes my task harder. Question: What great difficulties was Yamato now faced with? Answer: The mountains were high and steep, the valleys dark and deep, and huge trees and bowlders of rock blocked up the road and stopped the progress of his army.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: What did people's surroundings reflect? Answer: minds and dispositions
Context: Once upon a time there was a woman who had seven hungry children, and she was baking pancakes for them. There was dough made with new milk, and it lay in the pan, and was rising so plumply and comfortably, that it was a pleasure to watch it. Question: Why did the children stand around the dough? Answer: It was a pleasure to watch it.
Context: Then it was whispered in Court circles that the Princess Hase, the daughter of Prince Toyonari Fujiwara, second minister at Court, was the most gifted poetess of the day, though still so young, and her masters confirmed the report. Long ago, a beautiful and gifted maiden-poetess had moved Heaven by praying in verse, had brought down rain upon a land famished with drought-so said the ancient biographers of the poetess Ono-no-Komachi. Question: What was whispered in Court circles? Answer: Princess Hase was the most gifted poetess of the day.
Context: The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmother sent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch. She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such a dinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn of the bracket bull. Question: What did the third daughter see when the heat of day came? Answer: The bracket bull coming to the boy, and the boy taking the horn off him and eating.
Context: When he got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in his feet, so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him. He now hastened to the temples of Ise, where you will remember that he prayed before undertaking this long expedition. Question: What did Yamato's aunt praise? Answer: His courage and his warrior's prowess.
Context: Three brothers were left destitute, by the death of their parents, at an early age. The eldest became expert in the craft of the forest, and he was very successful in procuring food. Question: What did the brothers acquire in the course of time? Answer: a knowledge of hunting and the pursuit of game
Context: It was lucky that the horse was sure-footed and knew the road, for his bridle hung loose on his neck, and his master took no heed of the way he was going. When the farm-house was reached, the man led the animal to the stable, and then went to look for his son. Question: How did the old man feel after he found out his son deceived him? Answer: angry
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. " Maidwa, that he might meet his brothers, rescued two of the magic arrows from the water; and although the third was borne off, he had a hope yet to recover that too, and to be master of the swan. He passed on, and when he emerged from the forest, the sun was just falling below the edge of the sky. Question: Why was Maidwa surprised? Answer: Instead of seeing it droop its neck and drift to the shore, the Red Swan flapped its wings, rose slowly, and flew off with a majestic motion toward the falling sun.
Context: asked the earthworm, who had overslept the time, and only now came up. " It is worth much to know that one of the numbers is a man of talent in the thing men call a 'committee.' Question: What did the mule propose as one of the prizes? Answer: free admission to a cabbage garden
Context: "Yes, it was I," answered the man: "I have an earnest request to make to you. "I want you to kill my mortal enemy the centipede, who lives on the mountain beyond," and the Dragon King pointed to a high peak on the opposite shore of the lake. Question: How will Hidesato help the Dragon King? Answer: kill his mortal enemy the centipede
Context: His father had a friend, and this friend held an official position in the South and offered the young man a place as secretary. So he was glad to take refuge in the Monastery of Puto, where he copied holy books for the abbot. Question: Who was the descendant of Confucius? Answer: the young man
Context: But it is a woman's danger to be petty and mean, and step-mothers are proverbial all the world over, and this one's heart was not as her first smiles were. Instead of lessening his affection for his daughter, as the woman desired, her grumblings only made him think of her the more. Question: What happened because of the woman's grumblings? Answer: made the man think of his daughter more
Context: Hidesato felt very sorry for the Dragon King on hearing his story, and readily promised to do what he could to help him. So Hidesato was conducted to the palace of the Dragon King, under the bridge. Question: Why did Hidesato readily promise to do what he could to help the Dragon King? Answer: Hidesato felt very sorry for the Dragon King.
Context: Although he provided for their support, the little spirit never performed household or hard work of any kind, and his sister obeyed. "She thinks," said the boy-man to himself, "I can see no further into the water than she. Question: What did the sister cast into the water? Answer: an old moccasin
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: How did the king feel about his sons? Answer: love
Context: In due time, what with good nursing, and good feeding, and good air, Gray Eagle recovered from his wound, and he repaid the kindness of his brothers by giving them such advice and instruction in the art of hunting as his age and experience qualified him to impart. As spring advanced, they began to look about for the means of replenishing their store-house, whose supplies were running low; and they were all quite successful in their quest except the youngest, whose name was Peepi, or the Pigeon-Hawk, and who had of late begun to set up for himself. Question: Who was not quite as successful in his quest? Answer: the youngest
Context: And so it did, for very soon the poor brother reached the place, bespattered with mud from head to foot, but ready to do all he could to help with the mule and his master. When he saw this the muleteer's anger knew no bounds, and forgetting that without the help given him he would have lost his mule altogether, he began to abuse the poor man, declaring that he had ruined his beast, and the law would make him pay for it. Question: Why was the muleteer mad at the elder brother? Answer: The elder brother removed the mule's tail.
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: What will the lad do with the sword? Answer: save the king's daughter
Context: There lived in Boston a wise and ancient chemist by the name of Dr. Daws, who dabbled somewhat in magic. There also lived in Boston a young lady by the name of Claribel Sudds, who was possessed of much money, little wit and an intense desire to go upon the stage. Question: Where did Dr. Daws live? Answer: Boston
Context: It was so pale, the small eyes had closed themselves, and it drew its breath so softly, now and then, with a deep respiration, as if it sighed. The old man sat and rocked the cradle, and the mother sat down on a chair close by him, and looked at her little sick child that drew its breath so deep, and raised its little hand. Question: What did the old man do when he sat down? Answer: rocked the cradle
Context: By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived, when he was not travelling with his father and mother. They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tails for the baby's mother, who felt at last that she was safe and at peace. Question: How did the snake escape from his enemy? Answer: The girl helped him.
Context: Now every one came out of church, and the old lady stepped into her carriage. She danced round the church corner, for she could not stop; the coachman had to run after her and seize her. Question: Why did they take off her shoes? Answer: so she would stop dancing
Context: Now it was just dinner time, so they all had a dinner of raspberries and cream. ' Be careful with the sugar, Otto,' said the big sister; but Otto's plate was like a snowdrift in winter, with just a little red under the snow. Question: What did the big sister plan to do with the baskets of berries? Answer: clean them this evening, and to-morrow they could cook them in the big preserving pan, and then they should have raspberry jam to eat on their bread
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: What did the snake promise to do if the girl saved the snake? Answer: save her from rain
Context: The king's daughter was now filled with eagerness, no longer listened to her step-sister's calls, and kept right on running. At length the princess came to a high hill, and as she looked toward its summit, there stood the lily high on the naked rock, glittering as white and radiant as the brightest star. Question: What made the king's daughter forget her step-sisters and everyone else in the world? Answer: so heartfelt was her happiness
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: What happened after Tom saw the joiant? Answer: Tom jumped a-one side and picked up a ram-pike.
Context: He could not help saying to himself:  "What manner of boy is this who is ever escaping from my power? When he had with great difficulty got near the nest, Mishosha cried out, addressing himself to the tree, and without much regard to the wishes of Owasso:  "Now stretch yourself up and be very tall." Question: What did Mishosha cry out to the tree? Answer: for it to stretch itself up and be very tall
Context: 'I will do anything that will bring me back to you,' exclaimed Uraschimataro, looking at her tenderly, but the princess was silent: she knew too well that when he left her she would see his face no more. Three days and three nights they swam through the sea, and at length Uraschimataro arrived at the beach which lay before his old home. Question: What did the princess do before Uraschimataro left her? Answer: took from a shelf a tiny golden box, and gave it to Uraschimataro
Context: When the king saw it he declared he would never rest until he had found the tree which bore it, even if he had to spend the rest of his life in visiting the islands that lay all round. 'Seven girls live in a hut down there,' replied the boy, pointing with his finger to where the sun was setting. Question: Why did the king want to find the tree? Answer: He saw an interesting leaf.
Context: He crawled to the pond pointed out to him, bathed well in it. He went hopping joyfully towards the young man who had so helped him, and kneeling down at his feet, said:  "I cannot express my thanks for all you have done for me! Question: What was Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto doing on this expedition? Answer: walking behind them with this great big bag on his back
Context: Seven years had passed, and the king was expected home from the war. They let them down from the tower at night, to seek their fortune in the wide, wide world. Question: What did the king's daughter give her son? Answer: a costly knife
Context: John Blessom once upon a time had gone down to Copenhagen to carry on a suit at law, for in those days one could not get justice in the land of Norroway; and if a man wanted his rights, there was nothing left for him to do but to travel to Copenhagen. Now it chanced that on Christmas Eve John had had speech with the gentleman in authority, and had attended to his business, and was going along the street in a low-spirited manner, for he was homesick. Question: Where had John Blessom gone down to? Answer: Copenhagen
Context: "No," said the youth, he always had something to think about. "No," said the youth, "I am used to serving myself, so I have no need of a servant. Question: How will the youth feel about having a comrade? Answer: happy
Context: It seemed to the lamp as if the whole world had turned round. But after a while the old watchman looked at the lamp and spoke of what they had both gone through together--in rain and in fog, during the short, bright nights of summer or in the long winter nights, through the drifting snowstorms when he longed to be at home in the cellar. Question: Who was speaking to the lamp? Answer: the old watchman
Context: "Because they have not treated me with the respect due to a stranger," replied the boy. He placed himself under the tuition of Fergus Mac Roy, who, each day, grew more and more proud of his pupil, for while still a boy his fame was extending over Ulla. Question: Who was Dectera to Conchubar? Answer: sister
Context: It happened that the King's son gave a ball, and invited all persons of fashion to it. They were mightily delighted at this invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns, petticoats, and head-clothes as might become them. Question: Who gave a ball and invited all persons of fashion to it? Answer: the King's son
Context: Duchess considered and considered and read Ribby's letter again--  "A pink and white pie-dish-and YOU shall eat it all. ' Ribby is sure to go out to buy the muffins..... Oh what a good idea! Question: What does Duchess decide to do? Answer: to put her pie into Ribby's oven when Ribby isn't there
Context: As he opened his eyes, in a dreamy way, he saw the kettle near him. The fire flickered, and made light and shadow; but nowhere was Wassamo to be seen. "Perhaps," thought the cousin, "he is gone out again to visit the nets." He would have rested to restore his mind to its peace, but he could not sleep; and, without further regard to net or canoe, he set off for the village, running all the way. Question: Why was the cousin worried about Wassamo's disappearance? Answer: He cared for Wassamo.
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: What happened because the six sons were so deeply in love with their brides? Answer: They altogether forgot they were also to bring back a princess for their younger brother.
Context: Finn followed, and on the threshold of the enchanted palace he found the body of Midna. That hole was twenty feet deep in the earth, and at the bottom of it there was a fire always from that night, and it was never extinguished. Question: What did Finn return to Tara? Answer: the enchanter's head
Context: The ground is hard and covered with snow, they can't plant me yet, and that is why I am staying here under cover till the spring comes. It was so nice out in the wood, when the snow lay all around, and the hare leapt past me; yes, even when he leapt over me: but I didn't like it then. Question: How did the fir-tree feel when it was put in a dark corner? Answer: lonely
Context: I must lock my door against the wild hunters, so, in order that I may know you, you must knock and say, 'Little sister, let me in,' and unless I hear that I shall not unlock the door." Then the fawn sprang out, and felt glad and merry in the open air. Question: What did the fawn say when he returned to the little house? Answer: Little sister, let me in.
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: How did the people feel when the King returned? Answer: joy
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: What did the prince do after he let the wolf eat the horse? Answer: took the bit and put it in the wolf's mouth and fastened the saddle on his back
Context: They began to make shields, and fashioned them after the shape of the shields they had seen. We will buy the leather ready dressed, and will make the shoes from it.' Question: Why did Rhiannon, Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi leave to go to another town? Answer: The shield-makers wanted to slay them.
Context: He then told the young man to arise, and to prepare to wrestle with him. He began the trial, and after a long-sustained struggle he was almost overpowered, when the beautiful stranger said:  "My friend, it is enough for once, I will come again to try you;" and smiling on him, he returned through the air in the same direction in which he had come. Question: How did Wunzh feel when he saw the visitor reappear? Answer: joy
Context: He acquired all sorts of magic powers by means of which he extended his life-span. He agreed to give him a hundred pieces of copper daily; yet he did not pay him, and finally he owed him seven million, two hundred thousand pieces of copper. Question: Why did the servant refused to go further? Answer: He insisted on being paid.
Context: When the duke was alone once more, he began to think of the princess again, and whether she were really as beautiful as the soldiers had said. Since so many strange things had happened that day, it was quite possible, thought he. Question: What did the duke do because he was unsure if the princess was really as beautiful as the soldiers had said? Answer: decided he would like to find out for himself
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: Why did Sheen tell Murtough not to reveal her name? Answer: She did not want to be targeted.
Context: The little hare, who took seven miles in a stride, was there in no time at all, and he stopped on the borders of a lake. 'The Porcelain Maiden,' said the hare to the youth, 'will come here to bathe with her friends, while I just eat a mouthful of thyme to refresh me. Question: Where did the man hide himself? Answer: under a rock at some distance
Context: These words had been scarcely breathed, when the young woman rose up, opened her eyes, and looked upon Bokwewa with a smile, as if she had known him before. To Kwasynd she paid no heed whatever; but presently Bokwewa, seeing how she lingered in her gaze upon himself, said to her, "Sister, that is your husband," pointing to Kwasynd. Question: What happened to the woman after she was restored? Answer: The woman and Kwasynd were man and wife.
Context: The spring, with all its blossoms and its delicate newness of life, came among them; the Indians assembled to celebrate their vernal feast from all the country round. The village was stirred to its very heart by their loud lamentings; and, after a struggle of pity, they decided to give the young man's life to the parents. Question: Why did Netawis say he was not afraid to die? Answer: He was innocent of the great wrong they laid to his charge.
Context: 'God save you,' says the King (for the King was a civil-spoken gentleman, by all accounts), 'God save you,' says he to the young man. 'Oh, that's a folly to talk,' says the King, 'because myself and my goose is private friends,' says he, 'and no one could tell you,' says he, 'barrin' the fairies.' For I'd have you know,' says he, 'that I don't keep the likes o' such company.' Question: Who did the king suspect told Saint Kavin about the goose? Answer: the fairies
Context: I vowed that I would follow the Green Knight," he replied, "and I will carry out my vow, even if the venture leadeth me close to the nethermost world." He walked through their ranks till he came to the middle of the Circle; and there, seated at a table of red marble, was the Knight whom he had come so far to seek, clad in his grass-green robes. Question: What did the goblins do after there was a silence? Answer: parted into two companies, leaving a way through their midst, up which they signed to the Earl to pass
Context: Then it was whispered in Court circles that the Princess Hase, the daughter of Prince Toyonari Fujiwara, second minister at Court, was the most gifted poetess of the day, though still so young, and her masters confirmed the report. Long ago, a beautiful and gifted maiden-poetess had moved Heaven by praying in verse, had brought down rain upon a land famished with drought-so said the ancient biographers of the poetess Ono-no-Komachi. Question: What was requested of Princess Hase? Answer: write a poem and offer it in prayer
Context: So the youth served out his three years, and did better than they had expected him to do. Now when his master was to go to do his buying, he set out as early as possible in the morning. " Question: What was the old woman carrying? Answer: a covered basket
Context: "Well, whether you be crooked or straight, you will have to let me pass," said Per Gynt. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: What did Per Gynt do when he entered the cottage? Answer: stumbled and felt his way along the walls
Context: 'I'd like to wring their necks,' said the magician, and made all haste home, where he had every one of his servants beaten to within an inch of their lives. We'll only go and look at what's to be seen in the town for about an hour, and then we'll continue our journey to my father's kingdom.' Question: Where was the Prince and Hyacinthia approaching? Answer: a large city
Context: One sunshiny morning, when there were just two or three promising clouds rolling moistly about the sky, Aggo prepared to go out a-fishing; but before he left the lodge he reminded her of her strange and industrious lover, whom she had never seen. With this excellent advice, Aggo hopped off in high spirits; but he had scarcely reached the fishing-ground when he heard a voice singing, at a distance:      Man with the leg tied up,     Man with the leg tied up,         Broken hip--hip--             Hipped. Question: How did Aggo feel going fishing? Answer: in high spirits
Context: Oh, this one egg takes a dreadful long time," said the sitting Duck; "it won't break. They are the sweetest Ducklings I've ever seen; they're all just like their wretch of a father, who never comes to see me." Question: Why was the mother duck considering to kick out the big egg? Answer: She did not believe that it's a duck.
Context: 'Farewell, bright sun!'she cried, stretching out her arms towards it, and taking another step outside the house; for now the corn had been reaped, and only the dry stubble was left standing. ' You can sit on my back, and we will fly far away from the ugly mole and his dark house, over the mountains, to the warm countries where the sun shines more brightly than here, where it is always summer, and there are always beautiful flowers. Question: Why was Thumbelina unwilling to marry the ugly mole? Answer: She had to live underground where the sun never shone, and she could not help bursting into tears.
Context: "I am going," she continued, addressing her mother as they left the lodge, "I am going from one who has watched my infancy and guarded my youth; who has given me medicine when I was sick, and prepared my food when I was well. So saying, she sped faster than any could follow her to the margin of the fairy wood, and in a moment was lost to sight. With torches they hastened to the wood, and although they lit up every dark recess and leafy gloom, their search was in vain. Question: How will Leelinau's parents feel when Leelinau did not return? Answer: worried
Context: But the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter. So she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way, and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them, and when he had done so he set forth. He took a roundabout way, the longest he could find, for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling, and the talk about marriage. Question: Why did the mother think her son would not be refused? Answer: He was such a good-looking fellow.
Context: As soon as the first husband came home his wife said to him:  'Thou art sick!' 'Yes, thou art,' she answered; 'take off thy clothes and lie down.' Question: What did the woman tell her husband to do? Answer: take off his clothes and lie down
Context: 'Yes, when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully,' said Lisa. Question: How did the big sister feel after her siblings complained about a worm? Answer: annoyed
Context: On one side, sitting among the cinders, with his face blackened, and crying aloud, was his elder brother. On the other side sat the younger, Jeekewis, also with blackened face, his head covered with stray feathers and tufts of swan-down. As soon as Jeekewis heard a wife spoken of, he roused from his torpor, sprang to his feet, and said:  "Why is it just now that you have come?" Jeekewis scampered about, and began to wash himself; but he would every now and then, with one side of his head all feathers, and the other clear and shining, peep forth to look at the women again. Question: What happened after Jeekewis learned that Maidwa brought women? Answer: Jeekewis began to wash himself.
Context: Then they went their way deeper into the wood, and in the middle of it, where it was thickest and darkest, they came upon a little enchanted house which stood empty. So they went forth into the wood, and shot hares and roe-deer, birds and wood-pigeons, and any other game they came across. Question: Why was Benjamin told to stay home and keep the house for his brothers? Answer: He was the youngest and weakest.
Context: He was soon, having already yielded to temptation by the way, overcome by their fair looks and soft speeches, and he was not long afterward seen beating corn with the women, having entirely abandoned all further quest for his lost wife. Meantime, Bokwewa, alone in the lodge, often musing upon the discourse of the spirit-wife, who was gone, waited patiently his brother's return. Question: How will Bokwewa feel about Kwasynd staying with the village? Answer: sad
Context: Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had only one son; but one who was so lazy and clumsy that he did not want to do a stroke of work. " But at the end of the three years, his master was to go into town, two days in succession, and buy the first thing he saw, and on the third morning the youth himself was to go to town and also buy the first thing he met. Question: Why did the son not want to do a stroke of work? Answer: He was so lazy and clumsy.
Context: He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves, he handed it to his guest. "I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. Question: What did the men do after the ceremony was attended to? Answer: began to speak
Context: They were astonished to find that Tara was still standing, for though the night was dark, the palaces and temples, all of hewn timber, were brilliantly coloured and of many hues, for in those days men delighted in splendid colours. Conn and his only son and Gaul mac Morna followed the young hero into the Teck-Midcuarta, where the spear-long waxen candles were still burning, and when they saw the head of Midna impaled there at the end of the hall, the head of the man whom they believed to be immortal and not to be wounded or conquered, they were filled with great joy, and praised their deliverer and paid him many compliments. Question: How did the men feel when they saw Midna's head? Answer: joy
Context: The well was deep, and therefore the rope had to be a long one. But as far as its beams could reach, green things grew forth between the stones in the sides of the well. Question: Why was there a long rope? Answer: because the well was deep
Context: There was no need to delay the marriage when the table was able to furnish the most splendid banquet that ever was seen, and after everyone had eaten and drunk as much as they wanted, Jack took his bag and commanded a castle filled with all sorts of treasures to arise in the park for himself and his bride. 'Your magic is greater than mine,' he said; 'and you are young and strong, while I am old and tired. Question: Why did the king give Jack his scepter and crown? Answer: Jack's magic was greater than his.
Context: The warrior's household and servants had been very much concerned when they found that he did not return the night before, but they finally concluded that he had been kept by the violent storm and had taken shelter somewhere. When the servants on the watch for his return caught sight of him they called to every one that he was approaching, and the whole household turned out to meet him, wondering much what the retinue of men, bearing presents and banners, that followed him, could mean. Question: How did the warrior's household feel when he did not return the night before? Answer: concerned
Context: At the close of this busy day, when the Old Spirit came in very much out of breath, he said to Wassamo, "Son-in-law, I am in want of tobacco. Other gifts beside tobacco came in the same way to the side of the lodge--sometimes a whole bear, then a wampum-robe, then a string of birds--and the Sand-Spirits altogether led an easy life; for they were not at the trouble to hunt or clothe themselves; and whenever the housekeeping began to fall short, nothing would happen but a wonderful storm of dust, all the sand-hills being straightway put in an uproar, and the contributions would at once begin to pour in at the side windows of the lodge, till all their wants were supplied. Question: How did the gifts come to the Old Spirit? Answer: by putting his hand out of the side of the lodge
Context: Once upon a time there were three brothers who had lost their parents, and since the latter had left their sons nothing upon which to live, they had to wander out into the world, and seek their fortune. The two older brothers prepared for the journey as well as they were able; but the youngest, whom they called "Mike by the Stove," because he was always sitting behind the stove whittling, they did not want to take with them. Question: Why were the brothers jealous of Mike by the stove? Answer: Mike by the Stove was quickest at driving his nails into the wall, and pulling them out again.
Context: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man was determined to sell him to the butcher. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he said to himself:  "Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Question: How did the monkey feel to hear the man's plan? Answer: sad
Context: No sooner was the old man buried than Martin and Michael agreed that they would go into the world together to seek their fortunes, while Jack stayed at home with their mother. This made his brothers very angry, for the day was hot and the bags were heavy, and about noon they sat down under a tree and began to eat. Question: How did Jack's brothers feel about Jack not carrying any food? Answer: angry
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: Who did Morraha salute to? Answer: the young man
Context: As the goat flew upward, the comrade swung himself up in back, and then they were off like the wind through the clouds: it was not a long journey. Yes, I will keep them, and take good care of them, and a kiss from you shall pledge the truth, when crows are cawing around the youth!" Now there was only one more little test for him to undergo. " In the meantime the comrade went to the smith, and had him weld an additional twenty-four pounds of iron on his sword. Question: Why did the princess give the youth a difficult test? Answer: She did not want to marry him.
Context: But he welcomed her as if she were known to him and he asked her wherefore she was come. " I do," she answered, "for all secret and mysterious things are known to me and thou and all the men of Erin are well known." And Duivsech, his wife, went crying along the road with her children around her to seek Bishop Cairnech, the half-brother of her husband, and her own soul-friend, that she might obtain help and shelter from him. Question: Why did Sheen make her wish so long and complicated? Answer: She wanted revenge against Murtough.
Context: Watanabe's eyes grew large with wonder, for he saw that the ogre was taller than the great gate, his eyes were flashing like mirrors in the sunlight, and his huge mouth was wide open, and as the monster breathed, flames of fire shot out of his mouth. But Watanabe, determined not to let the monster escape, put spurs to his horse and gave chase. Question: How did Watanabe feel to see the ogre? Answer: surprised
Context: Then he gave her someone for a guide, who walked near her and said nothing, but he brought her in two hours to her house. When the day broke, a voice called from the iron stove, 'It seems to me that it is day outside.' Question: What did the miller's daughter do when she arrived at the great wild wood? Answer: scraped for twenty-four hours
Context: Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed to tremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant. It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquer Midna. Question: Who was the stranger? Answer: Finn
Context: But the seal catcher only laughed at them, and said that those seals were most worth killing. The seal catcher, much annoyed at his clumsiness, and also at the loss of his knife, went home to dinner in a very downcast frame of mind. Question: Who was so tall and so strange-looking and who rode on such a gigantic horse? Answer: a horseman
Context: It chanced, one dark December night, that there was a dreadful storm at sea, and in the morning the beach was all strewn with wreckage. So as soon as it was daylight the two friends went down to the shore to see if they could find anything to eat. Question: What did the Fox and the Wolf find at the beach? Answer: a great Keg of Butter
Context: He was really a splendid worker; but a dangerous eater, like a bottomless cask, said the peasant. " He had no more work for him, and the best thing to do would be to go to the king's castle. Question: Why did the peasant send Murmur Goose-Egg to the castle? Answer: He had no more work for him.
Context: A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself, and he vowed that he would work her ill. When he was admitted to his presence, he knelt down and touched the ground with his forehead, and the king bade him stand up and tell wherefore he had come. Question: How did the brother try to make his sister unhappy? Answer: accused her of being a witch
Context: said the astonished Kumaso, forgetting war and council and everything as he looked at the gentle intruder. He beckoned to the disguised Prince and bade him sit down and serve them with wine. Question: What will Yamato do once the chiefs became drunk? Answer: attack the chiefs
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: What did the Abbot hear the strange men speak? Answer: The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech.
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: Why didn't the master believe in ghosts, elves, or fairies? Answer: He could not see them.
Context: "I'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that's under your bed," says he. "I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," says he, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges with that stroke. Question: Why did they have not half enough of vessels? Answer: They had that much milk.
Context: 'This time you've made a mistake,' thought Prince Milan, and going to his room he sat down at the window. ' You will recognise me by a tiny fly I shall have on my left cheek, but be careful for you might easily make a mistake.' Question: Why did the little bee say it was not easy to distinguish the daughters? Answer: They were thirty sisters so exactly alike that their own father can hardly distinguish them apart.
Context: The devil would gladly have won back some of the tribute Murmur had forced from his grandmother for the king. And after he had won all the devil had with him, the latter had to give him some of the gold and silver that was in the castle. Question: What will Murmur do to the devil? Answer: trick him
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Where was the Abbot's blissful soul? Answer: in Heaven
Context: On the twenty-sixth of the month news came from the general's camp that he had suddenly died at midnight on the thirteenth. Dschou Bau was frightened, and sent a man to bring him a report. Question: How did Dschou Bau feel when he found out that Dschong Tschong-Fu died? Answer: frightened
Context: At last Watanabe reached the Gate of Rashomon, but peer as he might through the darkness he could see no sign of an ogre. He fastened the piece of paper, signed by all his four companions, on the gate, and then turned his horse's head towards home. Question: Why did Watanabe fasten the piece of paper to the date? Answer: The other can see he had been there when they come tomorrow.
Context: Nobody seemed to want them, or, if they did, the young men declared that they were not able to undertake all that the farmers or millers or woodcutters required of them. The youngest brother, who was wiser, would gladly have done some of the work that the others refused, but he was small and slight, and no one thought of offering him any. Question: What happened because the three brothers had no work? Answer: They went from one place to another, living only on the fruit and nuts they could find in the woods.
Context: After this he lived for many a long year in his Castle of Ercildoune, and the fame of his poetry and of his prophecies spread all over the country, so that people named him True Thomas, and Thomas the Rhymer. I cannot write down for you all the prophecies which Thomas uttered, and which most surely came to pass, but I will tell you one or two. Question: Why did people name him Thomas the Rhymer? Answer: He was famous for his prophecies.
Context: 'Yes,' said Aina, 'if we had only two good meat sandwiches now.' As she said that, she felt something in her hand, and when she looked down, she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken, and at the same time Lisa said: 'How very queer! Question: What happened after Aina wished to eat sandwiches? Answer: She felt something in her hand, and when she looked down, she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken.
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: Why were Fergus Mac Roy and his guests fearful? Answer: They said that the boy was torn in pieces.
Context: One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf. Question: Why didn't the old toad want Thumbelina to escape? Answer: The old toad wanted Thumbelina to marry her son.
Context: The Prince of the Dragon Cave was especially desirous of testing Aduan. So Aduan danced alone, and he danced with joy or defiance according to the music. The Dragon Prince, enchanted with his skill, presented him with a garment of five colors, and gave him a carbuncle set in golden threads of fish-beard for a hair-jewel. Question: Why did Aduan and Rose of Evening only gaze and let their souls go out to each other? Answer: The strict rules allowed no confusion in the ranks.
Context: A MOMENT afterwards there were most awful noises--barking, baying, growls and howls, squealing and groans. Jemima Puddle-duck said that it was because of her nerves; but she had always been a bad sitter. Question: What did the puppiess do? Answer: They gobbled up all the eggs.
Context: Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had only one son; but one who was so lazy and clumsy that he did not want to do a stroke of work. " But at the end of the three years, his master was to go into town, two days in succession, and buy the first thing he saw, and on the third morning the youth himself was to go to town and also buy the first thing he met. Question: Why did the man want to send his son far away? Answer: He did not want to feed him for the rest of his life.
Context: Now he began to realize what had happened, and that Lasse, when he obtained the scrap of paper, no longer had to serve him, and that he himself had made this possible. But now things were as they were, and there stood the duke in the old hut, with scarcely a shirt to his name. Question: Why did the princess still have her clothes? Answer: They had been given her by her father, and Lasse had no power over them.
Context: asked she, at the same time signing to her daughter to stir the large pot on the fire. 'You cannot get it here,' said the witch, 'but you will find both food and shelter in the palace on the other side of the lake. Question: What did Pinkel promise the witch? Answer: never hurt the witch
Context: said he gently, and, as she only sobbed louder, he continued:  'Are you a woman, or a spirit of the woods?' 'I am a woman,' she answered slowly, wiping her eyes with a leaf of the creeper that hung about her. Question: What did the prince do every month with his friends? Answer: shoot birds in the forest
Context: The youth turned around quickly, and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off. But now they were delivered, because he had come down to them, and had never contradicted. Question: What made the princess and her playmates turn to rats? Answer: They had all been enchanted together.
Context: Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. And she caused a great wind to spring up, and it came soughing through the house from the north-west; and the King said, "This is the sigh of the winter night." Question: What happened after Murtough said Sheen's name? Answer: She caused a great snowstorm to come round the house so that drifts of deep snow were piled against the walls, blocking the doors and chilling the folk that were feasting within the house.
Context: The presents which he had received from the grateful Dragon King were found to be of magic power. The bell only was ordinary, and as Hidesato had no use for it he presented it to the temple near by, where it was hung up, to boom out the hour of day over the surrounding neighborhood. Question: Which gift did not have magic powers? Answer: the bell
Context: He did not say anything, and he did not complain, and those are bad signs. My heart joins in your song so sweet;      Come out, dear sun, the world to greet! Question: Why did the Snow-man love the stove? Answer: The Snow-man had a stove-raker in his body.
Context: At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, took heart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife? Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees. Question: What did the prince do at the end of the seventh day? Answer: went out hunting, and helped his father rule his people
Context: Well, I was preparing myself to try strength with him, when back he comes, with the kitchen cleaver in his hand, and without saying a word he gives two bangs to the handle of the reaping-hook that was holding me up, and whap it came in two. ' Good morning to you, Dan,' says the spiteful little blackguard, when he saw me cleanly falling down with a bit of the handle in my hand; 'I thank you for your visit, and fair weather after you, Daniel.' Question: What happened to Daniel after the man broke the reaping-hook? Answer: fell down with a bit of the handle in my hand
Context: On the fifth day of the fifth month the festival of the Dragon Junk is held along the Yangtze-kiang. A carved red railing surrounds this ship, and its sails and flags are made of silks and brocade. Question: Where was the festival of Dragon Junk held? Answer: along the Yangtze-kiang
Context: She ran downhill a few yards flapping her shawl, and then she jumped off into the air. JEMIMA alighted rather heavily, and began to waddle about in search of a convenient dry nesting-place. Question: Who did Jemima find upon the stump? Answer: an elegantly dressed gentleman reading a newspaper
Context: 'Now go, all of you, and call my attendants, for I do not wish to say here any longer,' he said to the men, and as soon as they were out of sight he bade the girl get into the litter, and fasten the curtains tightly. 'Tell my father and mother that I have a fever, and want some gruel,' said he, 'and bid them send it quickly.' Question: What did the prince do after her attendants were out of sight? Answer: bade the girl get into the litter, and fasten the curtains tightly
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." Indeed, to tell the truth, she was supposed to be a fairy herself. Now, it so happened that Oonagh had a sister named Granua living opposite to them, on the very top of Cullamore, which I have mentioned already. Question: Where did Granua live? Answer: on the very top of Cullamore
Context: Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed to tremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant. It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquer Midna. Question: How did the soldiers feel hearing the tread of a giant? Answer: scared
Context: In the meantime their little sister at home was growing up quickly. Then she took the girl and opened the locked-up room; she showed her the twelve coffins filled with shavings, and with the little pillow laid in each. Question: What did their little sister have on her forehead? Answer: a gold star
Context: Once upon a time, all the people of a certain country had died, excepting two helpless children, a baby boy and a little girl. She looked around her, but seeing nobody beside her little brother, who lay smiling in his dreams, she quietly resumed her bed. Question: What made the girl quietly resume to bed? Answer: saw her little brother lay smiling in his dreams
Context: The oldest daughter of the Ruler of Heaven had married the great general Li Dsing. When Li Dsing saw the child he took pity on him and did not slay him, while his wife began to love the boy dearly. Therefore I will take him as my pupil to gentle his savage ways." Question: How will the oldest daughter of the Ruler of Heaven feel after her dream? Answer: frightened
Context: "I wonder why grandmother looks at the withered flower in the old book that way? Why, when grandmother's tears fall upon the rose, and she is looking at it, the rose revives, and fills the room with its fragrance; the walls vanish as in a mist, and all around her is the glorious green wood, where in summer the sunlight streams through thick foliage; and grandmother, why she is young again, a charming maiden, fresh as a rose, with round, rosy cheeks, fair, bright ringlets, and a figure pretty and graceful; but the eyes, those mild, saintly eyes, are the same,--they have been left to grandmother. Question: What did grandmother's cheeks look like when she was young? Answer: round and rosy
Context: The guests all grew pale with terror when they heard the news. I thanked her and went, called together the captains, had the army mustered and rode out before the city. Light-armed men then went out against him, and retreated in skirmish order. On the following day a banquet was held, and the princess herself filled a goblet, sent it to me by one of her attendants, and said: 'Widowed early in life, I opposed the wishes of my stern father and fled to this spot. Then I rode away and when I arrived before our own gate a thunder-peal crashed and I awoke." Question: What did the general do after he defeated Tschauna? Answer: bowed and begged the princess to grant him leave of absence
Context: So he sent for them all, and, after speaking to them kindly, he added:  "You will quite agree with me, my dear children, that my great age makes it impossible for me to look after my affairs of state as carefully as I once did. I begin to fear that this may affect the welfare of my subjects, therefore I wish that one of you should succeed to my crown; but in return for such a gift as this it is only right that you should do something for me. Question: What did the princes need to do to succeed the throne? Answer: The one who brought the king the most beautiful little dog shall succeed him.
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: What did the younger brother regret not doing? Answer: putting a stop to it in the beginning
Context: While traveling about her estates, Madame Margaret one evening came to the tavern in Fjelkinge. Those who knew about it preferred to travel a post-station further in the dark, rather than pass the night in the room in question. Question: How did Margaret Barnekow feel about staying in the room? Answer: unafraid
Context: "My business," says Tom, says he, "is to make the beautiful princess, God bless her, laugh three times." " The King, that was too far off to hear what they were saying, asked what did the stranger want. " He wants," says the red-headed fellow, "to make hares of your best men." " says the King, "if that's the way, let one of 'em turn out and try his mettle." So one stood forward, with sword and pot-lid, and made a cut at Tom. The princess was not well pleased, for Tom looked a different person with fine clothes and a nice green birredh over his long, curly hair; and besides, he'd got one laugh out of her. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " Question: Why did Redhead put so many challenges against Tom? Answer: to get rid of Tom
Context: In a moment the Princess Hyacinthia had changed herself, the Prince, and his charger into a thick wood where a thousand paths and roads crossed each other. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: What made the Magician go after Hyacinthia and the Prince himself? Answer: His servants failed to catch them.
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: How did the strange men feel towards Matthias? Answer: skeptical
Context: Great indeed was Hase-Hime's fear and astonishment when her father sent for her and told her what was required of her. His Majesty was highly pleased, and sent for her to the Palace and rewarded her with the rank of Chinjo-that of Lieutenant-General-to distinguish her. Question: What happened after the poem was read? Answer: The waters ceased their roaring, and the river was quiet.
Context: 'Of course, Jegu must have done this in the hope of my giving him a dance,' she thought to herself, and when she met him outside the door she stopped and thanked him for his help. To be sure, Jegu only replied roughly that he didn't know what she was talking about, but this answer made her feel all the more certain that it was he and nobody else. Question: How did Jegu respond to Barbaik's expression of gratitude? Answer: Jegu only replied roughly.
Context: Directly ahead of him lay a field of barley, with ears so large and heavy that he had never seen their like. Through the barley-field a narrow path led to a green turf-roofed cottage of clay, that rose above the field. Question: What was the man doing when Isaac saw him? Answer: puffing away at a little pipe
Context: After a time he lay down on his back, and prepared to go to sleep. But just then the ring slipped down his throat, and he had to cough, so that the ring flew out and rolled along the ground. Question: Why did the king condemn the youth to death? Answer: He had made a mock of his daughter.
Context: It chanced, long years ago, that a certain horse-dealer lived in the South of Scotland, near the Border. These hills are, as all men know, the scene of some of the most famous of Thomas the Rhymer's prophecies. Question: Where was Canonbie Dick riding over? Answer: Bowden Moor
Context: This was a very rude speech, especially against the cask, but the huckster and the student both laughed, for it was only said in fun. As soon as it was night, the shop closed, and every one in bed except the student, the goblin stepped softly into the bedroom where the huckster's wife slept, and took away her tongue, which of course she did not then want. Question: Where did the goblin place the tongue first? Answer: on the cask
Context: And when Notscha in the excess of his rage turned his fiery lance upon him, Wen Dschu stepped back a pace, shook the seven-petaled lotus from his sleeve, and threw it into the air. But the latter did not notice him; instead he entered the cave and thanked Wen Dschu for the severe lesson which he had given Notscha. Question: Why couldn't Notscha move? Answer: He was bound to a golden column with three thongs of gold.
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. She paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife. Question: What will happen because the woman paid the young princess fulsome compliments on everything she said and did? Answer: The woman and king will marry.
Context: "That is how happy I was when you delivered me out of the block of ice," said the comrade. " Now he had once more been allowed to visit him; yet on this occasion he would have to part for all time, for the bells of heaven were calling him. Question: Why did the comrade aid the youth? Answer: The youth had sacrificed all he had in order that he might have peace, and a burial in consecrated ground.
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: What will the head chef do after Hyacinthia bakes the cake? Answer: He will lay it before Prince Milian.
Context: 'Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wanted one?' Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find, and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it, and his sister had no home to go to. Question: How many pumpkins did the sister have when the slave arrived two days ago? Answer: four
Context: At that she began to cry again, and told the king's son all that had befallen her since the death of her mother. I will manage all that,' said the king's son, and swinging himself to a lower branch, he bade his slave go quickly into the town, and bring back with him four strong men and a curtained litter. Question: Why did the prince make his attendants leave? Answer: The girl did not want anyone to see each.
Context: So Grethel gave Hans a needle; and then he said, "Good-bye, Grethel," and she said, "Good-bye, Hans." Hans carried the needle away with him, and stuck it in a hay-cart that was going along, and he followed it home. Question: What did Hans bring Grethel? Answer: Nothing
Context: Sentaro, in his wish to escape from the country of Perpetual Life, recollected Jofuku, who had helped him before when he was wishing to escape from death. Once more the bird grew and grew till it was large enough for him to mount it. Question: Why was Sentaro amazed the crane was undamaged? Answer: It was in his pocket for a long time.
Context: The following evening the Prince dressed himself for the tournament. Place yourself at the window with your sisters; I will ride by and throw you the silver apple. Question: Why didn't the Princess reveal that the Crab turned into a human during the tournament? Answer: The Crab warned her that evil would come.
Context: After they had reflected a while they hit on the idea of lighting a great fire, and burning the ball of gold twine, for then the suitor could surely not regain it. Yet when she threw it into the flames, the comrade leaped forward and caught it, without being seen, for he was wearing the Three-Sisters Hat. Question: What happened after the princess threw the ball of gold twine into the flames? Answer: The comrade leaped forward and caught it, without being seen.
Context: Walter is six years old, and he must soon begin to go to school. He was wonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at home with his brothers and sister, then he used often to say 'One wolf is nothing, there ought to be at least four.' Question: How was Walter brave? Answer: hunted wolves
Context: He turned round with a start to see the little woman with the green dress and scarlet stockings, who had remonstrated with him for lifting the turf the year before, standing by his side. "The divots which you took from the roof of my house have grown once more," she said, "and once more it is covered with grass. Question: What did the poor man do after the small woman finished talking? Answer: promised gladly, and took the oath with all due solemnity
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you up as well," said she, and seized the squirrel and ate him up. Question: Where did the cat come to after she had gone a while? Answer: a hazel bush
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: Why did Hyacinthia make so many changes in the old man's home? Answer: He protected her.
Context: Then they set forth, but the news of their coming ran swifter still. In the place where they were wont to see cattle, and herds, and dwellings, they beheld neither house nor beast, nor man nor smoke. Question: What did Rhiannon and Kieva, wife of Pryderi do after they heard the two men were coming? Answer: made haste to prepare a feast for them
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What did the Prince notice on the grass? Answer: thirty little white garments
Context: When the peasant set out for home, he reached the same tavern at which he had already put up in the evening, so he turned in and decided to stay over night. But during the night, while he was asleep, the old woman came and stole his mill and put another in its place. Question: Why was it impossible for the peasant to hold his tongue? Answer: He was so pleased with the mill.
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What did the snake suggest to the girl? Answer: take her baby and bathe in that cool place where the boughs of the tree stretch far over the water
Context: Once upon a time there was a master mariner who had the most unheard of good fortune in all that he undertook; none had such splendid cargoes, and none earned so much money as he did, for everything seemed to come to him. Thus he sailed for many years with cargoes of lumber, and even went as far as China, and earned money like hay. Question: What happened because the master mariner had good luck? Answer: He had such splendid cargoes
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: What was Prince Toyanari Fujiwara's wife like? Answer: noble, good, and beautiful
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: Where did Conchubar proceed to? Answer: Culain's house
Context: He related all that had happened to him from the moment of his leaving the temporary night-lodge with the flame on his head. All were delighted to make the acquaintance of the old Sand-Spirit's daughter; and as they had heard that he was a magician and guardian of great power, the tobacco which he had sent for by his son-in-law, came in, in great abundance, with every visitor. Question: Why was there a great abundance of tobacco sent to the Old Spirit? Answer: The Old Spirit told Wassamo to bring him tobacco.
Context: When the king's daughter and her maid saw the old woman, who was sitting beneath the window, they felt a great longing to try the beautiful apples. The princess and her maid, in all innocence, did as the troll-woman told them, and each received an apple. Question: What happened to the maidens because of the enchanted fruit's strange effect? Answer: heaven sent them each a child
Context: If you care to save us, then there is a hope that we may manage to stay alive; if not, then take your child and go, so that you are not involved in our danger." Then the youth begged him to stand in the door with a sword in his hand, and said: "Now when the thunder begins to roll you must stand there and never stir." Question: Why did the youth beg Kung to save his family? Answer: They were threatened by the danger of thunder.
Context: When he returned he found his temple destroyed; and the spirit of the hill gave him the details. The latter bestowed upon him the magic of the fiery lance, and Notscha thenceforward had two whirling wheels beneath his feet: The wheel of the wind and the wheel of fire. Question: How did Notscha's master turn him back into a human? Answer: made a body of lotus-plants, gave it the gift of life, and enclosed the soul of Notscha within i
Context: called Esben, and blew into one end of his whistle, and then they scattered the more quickly to all the ends of the earth. But when he had reached an old charcoal-pit, he blew into the other end of his whistle, and before he knew it the hares were back again, and standing in rank and file so he could review them, just like a regiment of soldiers on the drill-ground. Question: What made the hares return back again, standing in rank and file? Answer: Esben blew into the other end of the whistle.
Context: There was a witch woman in that country whose name was "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan." She knew, too, that with the coming of the new faith trouble would come upon the fairy folk, and their power and their great majesty would depart from them, and men would call them demons, and would drive them out with psalm-singing and with the saying of prayers, and with the sound of little tinkling bells. Question: Whose name was "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan?" Answer: a witch woman
Context: 'I can't understand him,' said the Snow-man; 'but I have an idea that he is speaking of something unpleasant. The lady-birches waved in the wind; and when the sun shone, everything glittered and sparkled as if it were sprinkled with diamond dust, and great diamonds were lying on the snowy carpet. Question: What did the girl and young man do when they stopped near the Snow-man? Answer: looked at the glistening trees
Context: When they reached home the gates and doors had long since vanished,
and the people of the village were all strangers to them. At last he
fell at Liu Tschen's feet with great joy and cried: "Yes, you are
really my master! Question: What happened after Liu Tschen went away? Answer: The villagers had no news of any kind regarding him some seventy years or more have passed.
Context: He sat up slowly and rubbed his eyes, and crossly demanded what his wife was making all that noise about. By the time that the man was alive to what had happened, and they both got outside the gate, the boar had got well away, but they saw the monkey running after the thief as hard as his legs would carry him. Question: How did they feel towards the monkey when he brought back their baby? Answer: gratitude
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: What was Tom's business with the Ould Boy? Answer: the loan of that flail that he saw hanging on the collar-beam for the King of Dublin to give a thrashing to the Danes.
Context: When Susan saw this she said to her husband, 'Just look, here is our old cat back again, and see what a lot of mice she has caught.' But Susan answered, 'There, you see, I always said our cat was a most excellent creature--but you men always think you know best.' Question: What did the fox order the dog to do? Answer: to bark at night because Simon has just killed a pig
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who reigned over a great kingdom. It is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned, not alone in the royal castle, but throughout the land; for the queen had been beloved of all. From that day forward the princess gave her father no peace, and begged him again and again to marry the good court lady. Question: Why did the king not want to marry the good court lady? Answer: He loved his late wife.
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: How did the two strange females look? Answer: pale, hollow-eyed, and long-visaged
Context: THIS is a Pussy called Miss Moppet, she thinks she has heard a mouse! THIS is the Mouse peeping out behind the cupboard, and making fun of Miss Moppet. Question: Who isn't afraid of the kitten? Answer: the Mouse
Context: When they retired to rest the Princess feared lest Jack should kiss her because of his prickles, but he told her not to be alarmed as no harm should befall her. When he was about to lie down in bed he would creep out of his hedgehog skin, and leave it lying at the bedside; then the men must rush in, throw the skin into the fire, and stand by till it was entirely burnt up. Question: What happened after the hedgehog skin was burned? Answer: Jack was released from his enchantment and lay in his bed a man from head to foot.
Context: "He surely is a kind master," said the king's son to himself, walked up and down the room, and whistled and sang. We have no such expensive soup at home," said the king's son, "but the main thing is, how does it taste?" Question: What was special about the first kettle? Answer: It was boiling but the king's son could find no fire beneath it.
Context: And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door was open, and from within there was heard a low, pleasant frizzling, like that which is heard when one whisks yellow batter with a wooden ladle into a hot frying-pan. When His angel is your guide,                Little Lasse, Lasse,           Then no harm can e'er betide,           Even on the other side                Where the wild beasts wander. Question: What happened after Little Lasse tried to jump ashore? Answer: He was chained to the boat.
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: Who was Gilla na Chreck an Gour? Answer: Tom
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: How will the thirtieth duck feel when the Prince returns the garment? Answer: grateful
Context: The bridegroom looked, and on one side of the road he saw a large ball of thread of all colours. All the colours, that is, of the dresses that were tied on to the back of the cart. Question: Why was there a great crowd assembled to witness the ceremony? Answer: The young people were immense favourites in the neighbourhood, and their parents were very rich.
Context: But little recked the horse-dealer of Arthur and his Knights, nor yet of Thomas the Rhymer. He was riding along at a snail's pace, thinking over the bargains which he had made at the fair that day. Question: How did Canonbie Dick feel when the stranger stopped to buy his horses? Answer: surprised
Context: When he came near enough for the soldiers to see him, they sent to ask whether he had a mind to attack them. "I don't care a fig for these blueberries," said Murmur Goose-Egg, and feasted on quite at ease. Question: What did the soldiers do while Murmur ate? Answer: began to fire at him
Context: The governor then led the Prince to a wild and extensive plain where the grass grew high and in great abundance. Quite ignorant that the governor had laid a trap for him with the desire to compass his death, the Prince began to ride hard and hunt down the deer, when all of a sudden to his amazement he saw flames and smoke bursting out from the bush in front of him. Question: How did the governor trap the Prince? Answer: The Prince was surrounded by fire.
Context: Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the Emperor Yuhi. This rebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which he fought to this end. Question: Where did the two armies meet? Answer: Takuroku
Context: 'Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped?' But it sounded horrid, and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf. Question: Why did Walter think the wolves were coming? Answer: He heard a howl of a wolf.
Context: Jack remained for some hours in hiding, thankful to be safe from his tormentors; but when no one came to trouble him, and his back did not ache so much, he began to think what he had better do. As before, the door stood open, and he went on till he had reached the hall of gold, and there he took off his jacket and tied the sleeves together so that it might make a kind of bag. Question: Who entered the castle while Jack was taking the gold? Answer: two giants
Context: said Conn. "Surely thou art the son of some great king or champion, for heroic feats like thine are not performed by the sons of inconsiderable and unknown men." Then his brothers and his sons, and the sons of his brothers, did so in succession, and after that all the chief men of the Fians did the same, and that night Finn was solemnly and surely installed in the Fian leadership of Erin, and put in possession of all the woods and forests and waste places, and all the hills and mountains and promontories, and all the streams and rivers of Erin, and the harbours and estuaries and the harbour-dues of the merchants, and all ships and boats and galleys with their mariners, and all that pertained of old time to the Fian leadership of Fail. Question: Why did Conn believe Finn was the son of a great king or champion? Answer: heroic feats like thine were not performed by the sons of inconsiderable and unknown men
Context: The captain asked what sort of nonsense this might be, and whether he had ever heard of a cabin-boy's being entrusted with the command of a ship. But the boy answered that was all one to him; if they did not care to buy the three cords of birch-wood, and obey him, as though he were captain, for the space of a single day--the captain and crew should know which day it was to be in advance--then he would set foot on the ship no more, and far less would he ever dirty his hands with pitch and tar on her again. Question: Why did the captain give in to the cabin boy's demands? Answer: He wanted to have the boy along with him.
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: Where did the man have to go till morning? Answer: into a tree
Context: And when Notscha in the excess of his rage turned his fiery lance upon him, Wen Dschu stepped back a pace, shook the seven-petaled lotus from his sleeve, and threw it into the air. But the latter did not notice him; instead he entered the cave and thanked Wen Dschu for the severe lesson which he had given Notscha. Question: What did Wen Dschu do when Notscha turned his fiery lance upon him? Answer: stepped back a pace, shook the seven-petaled lotus from his sleeve, and threw it into the air
Context: You may be sure no other body went near it; and when the early risers were passing next morning they found two long clefts in the stone where it was, after burning itself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. Well, I suppose before they were married Gilla got some man like Pat Mara of Tomenine to larn him the "principles of politeness," fluxions, gunnery, and fortifications, decimal fractions, practice, and the rule-of-three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up a conversation with the royal family. Question: Why would Tom not bring the flail to the palace? Answer: It was powerful.
Context: He proceeded toward the lodge, met the female as had been foretold to him, and became an elk. Soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners, he ventured to lay his head on her lap, and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber. Question: What happened after White Feather resumed his natural shape? Answer: White Feather and the woman sat down together, and he began to caress and to make love to her.
Context: She was stingier, and only offered fifty dollars; but she had to raise her bid until she reached three hundred. When she had the whistle in her hands, she tied it fast, and hid it well, but she fared not a whit better than either of the others. He put it in the purse in his pocket, and carefully buttoned up the pocket. Question: Why did the queen feel the same way as the king? Answer: She had also been made a fool.
Context: During this period of retirement he thought much of the men who had harmed him, and remembered the way they had made the great "bang!" When the moon fell away from the sky and the sun came to make the icebergs glitter with the gorgeous tintings of the rainbow, two of the polar bears arrived at the king's cavern to ask his advice about the hunting season. Question: How did the King of the Polar Bears feel towards the men who harmed him? Answer: scared
Context: When they came to the house of the guardian of the pass, red clouds appeared in the sky. Laotsze's servant told the servant of the guardian that his master owed him a great deal of money, and begged the latter to put in a good word for him. Question: What did Laotsze do when the guardian questioned him with regard to hidden knowledge? Answer: only stuck out his tongue at him and would not say a word
Context: To which the boy-man replied:  "Go, take hold of it, swallow it as fast as you can. The sister, who was watching all this time, opened wide her eyes as the huge fish came up and up upon the shore. Question: How did the boy use the old moccasin? Answer: to trick the fish into eating it
Context: He then told the young man to arise, and to prepare to wrestle with him. He began the trial, and after a long-sustained struggle he was almost overpowered, when the beautiful stranger said:  "My friend, it is enough for once, I will come again to try you;" and smiling on him, he returned through the air in the same direction in which he had come. Question: Why did Wunzh spring up even though he was weak from fasting? Answer: The voice of the stranger was cheery, and put such a courage in his heart.
Context: The robber agreed with delight, feeling certain of victory, for he was famous as a fencer in his province and he did not know who his adversary was. for the rebel the sword was the wooden one of the young Prince and in vain Takeru tried to unsheathe it-it was jammed fast, not all his exerted strength could move it. Question: What happened because Takeru was a famous fencer in his province and he did not know who his adversary was? Answer: The robber agreed with delight.
Context: The table on which the tin soldiers stood, was covered with other playthings, but the most attractive to the eye was a pretty little paper castle. In front of the castle a number of little trees surrounded a piece of looking-glass, which was intended to represent a transparent lake. Question: Who stood at the door of the castle? Answer: a tiny little lady
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: Why did the snake want the girl to open her earthen pot? Answer: The snake wanted to escape from the sun.
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who reigned over a great kingdom. It is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned, not alone in the royal castle, but throughout the land; for the queen had been beloved of all. Question: What did the king reign over? Answer: a great kingdom
Context: The charcoal-burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment, as if they could hardly believe their ears. When they were ready, one of the king's special servants entered, and took them into a small hall, where dinner was laid. Question: Why did the woman think it was needless to lock their door? Answer: It was quite, quite certain they would never come back.
Context: "But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift, do not repel him, or kill him?" Our hosts encompass Tara on all sides, keeping watch and ward when the fatal night comes. Now Finn was alone in the banqueting chamber after the rest had gone out, and he washed his face and his hands in pure water, and he took from the bag that was at his girdle the instruments of divination and magic, which had been his father's, and what use he made of them is not known; but ere long a man stood before him, holding a spear in one hand and a blue mantle in the other. Question: What will be the reward if Finn defeats Allen and saves Tara? Answer: Art and Gaul mac Morna and the Chief of the Fians."
Context: Once upon a time, long, long years ago, there lived a well-to-do old couple on a homestead up in Hadeland. When he rode toward the pasture, such a fire burned in the herdsman's hut that it lit up every road, and then he knew that the mountain folk were inside. And he could see that they had only just arrived, for everything was in disorder. Question: Why did the son ride up into the hills? Answer: He had often heard of the maiden who was so beautiful.
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: Why did the younger brother regret the day that he had first seen his wife? Answer: Her meanness and shabby ways put him to shame.
Context: 'If you must, you must,' said he; 'there, take your own way'; and he opened his claw, and, faith, he was right--sure enough, I came down plump into the very bottom of the salt sea! Down to the very bottom I went, and I gave myself up, then, for ever, when a whale walked up to me, scratching himself after his night's sleep, and looked me full in the face, and never the word did he say, but, lifting up his tail, he splashed me all over again with the cold salt water till there wasn't a dry stitch upon my whole carcass! Question: Who woke up Daniel? Answer: Judy
Context: The rebel was being driven backward by the royal troops when he again resorted to magic. Kotei by pointing to the shinansha could find his way and directed the army without a single mistake. Question: Why did no solider not mind the fog? Answer: Kotei used the shinansha.
Context: Why did the scholars go to the hills of Tian Tai? Question: gather curative herbs Answer: the-two-scholars
Context: And now, succeeding the flute music, sounded the music of a stringed instrument exceedingly sweet. Finn pressed the cruel spear-head closer to his forehead, and saw every torch fall, save one which wavered as if held by a drunken man, and beneath it a giant figure that reeled and tottered and strove in vain to keep its feet. Question: Where did Finn stand alone? Answer: one the dark hill-side
Context: And then, without further delay or question, the cousin ran off with breathless dispatch to the village. And joy lit up the lodge-circle as though a new fire had been kindled in the eyes of his friends and kinsfolk. Question: How did the village feel when they saw Wassamo? Answer: joyful
Context: Then the door was opened to him, and he went in, and rested the whole night long on his soft bed. The next morning the hunt began anew, and when the fawn heard the hunting-horns and the tally-ho of the huntsmen he could rest no longer, and said,  "Little sister, let me out, I must go." Question: Who slipped after the fawn to the little house? Answer: a hunter
Context: Among the mountain pastures and valleys that lie in the centre of France there dwelt a mischievous kind of spirit. Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plaiting together the manes and tails of two of the horses, so that it would take the grooms hours of labour to get them right in the morning. Puck, hidden among the hay in the loft, would peep out to watch them, enjoying himself amazingly all the time. Question: What did the sprite do in the cowsheds? Answer: unfastened the chains that fixed each beast in its own stall, and let them fall with a heavy clang to the ground
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: Why did Roc want to race? Answer: to prove his swiftness
Context: But Murmur Goose-Egg hurried back to the castle and asked for the reward the king had promised him. If he has not come down yet, then he, together with the knapsack, is floating between heaven and earth to this very day. Question: Why did the king make excuses to not keep his promise? Answer: He did not want to give Murmur his daughter.
Context: The Dragon King did as he was bid, and the warrior noticed that he had only three arrows left in his quiver. Again the arrow hit the mark, it struck the centipede right in the middle of its head, only to glance off and fall to the ground. Question: Why did the Dragon King lose heart and begin to tremble with hear? Answer: The brave warrior's arrows were powerless to kill the centipede.
Context: Then he went into the hill out of which the troll had come, and inside stood a horse eating out of a barrel of glowing ashes, while behind him stood a barrel filled with oats. Murmur did so, and then the horse turned into a fine-looking man. Question: Why did the horse help Murmur look for the sword? Answer: Murmur had helped him.
Context: It removed itself, and the old man added to Maidwa:  "My grandchild, feed yourself;" handing him at the same time a dish and ladle of the same ware as the pot itself. The young man, whose hunger was very great, helped himself to all that was in the pot. Question: Why was Maidwa surprised after emptying the pot a second time? Answer: It was still again filled and refilled till his hunger was entirely satisfied.
Context: When Confucius came to the earth, the Kilin, that strange beast which is the prince of all four-footed animals, and only appears when there is a great man on earth, sought the child and spat out a jade whereon was written: "Son of the Watercrystal you are destined to become an uncrowned king!" And Confucius grew up, studied diligently, learned wisdom and came to be a saint. Question: Who studied diligently, learned wisdom and came to be a saint? Answer: Confucius
Context: I thought a second dose of that poison would be too much for you,' said the witch looking at him. ' After that she put on her clogs and started to seek her daughter. Question: Why did the witch choose not to bring her cloak? Answer: It would be covered with mud by the time she got back.
Context: "As you choose," replied the shepherd, "but first we must abuse each other so that we can get into a proper rage. As we abuse each other we will grow angry, and when we are angry we will fight!" Question: Why did the shepherd say they must abuse each other first? Answer: They can get into a proper rage.
Context: "But the old woman hid me behind a great cask, and no sooner had she done so than the robbers came home, dragging with them a young woman, and they gave her to drink wine thrice, white, red, and yellow. The robber, who during the story had grown deadly white, sprang up, and would have escaped, but the folks held him fast, and delivered him up to justice. Question: What did the bride draw forth and show to the company? Answer: the finger with the ring
Context: answered Bale, nine miles away, "the sun and I wake together! In this fashion the two friends provided themselves with all the game to be found in the woods and in the water, and spread terror and destruction throughout the countryside. Question: How did Starkard and Bale help each other? Answer: They exchanged their foods.
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: What caused the vessels of gold, silver, and bronze to shine? Answer: a thousand wax candles
Context: 'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck, and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest. So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some pieces of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes. Question: Why did the fish tribe keep their backs toward the piercing wind? Answer: They didn't want the wind to put out the fire.
Context: So he was feeling very happy, and as he walked along he was humming a
tune to himself. So he sat down on a tuft of grass right under the shadow of the Crag,
and before he knew where he was he had fallen into a deep and heavy
slumber. Question: What happened after the poor man reached Merlin's Crag? Answer: His eyelids dropped over his eyes as if he were going to sleep, and his feet grew as heavy as lead.
Context: "Far away," continued the statue in a low musical voice, "far away in a little street there is a poor house. One of the windows is open, and through it I can see a woman seated at a table. Question: What did the Happy Prince ask the Swallow to bring to the seamstress? Answer: the ruby out of his sword-hilt
Context: Time passed away in the peaceful home, and the parents saw their fondest hopes realized as their daughter grew from childhood into a beautiful girl of sixteen. As a gem of priceless value is held in its proud owner's hand, so had they reared her with unceasing love and care. Question: What sorrow broke up the happiness of the family? Answer: The wife was one day taken ill.
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: How did Cairnech try to save Murtough? Answer: He tried to invade the fort.
Context: Then Hans took Grethel, and tied a rope round her neck, and led her home, and fastened her up to the manger, and went to his mother. Then Hans went into the stable, and taking all the eyes out of the sheep, he threw them in Grethel's face. Question: Why did Grethel run away? Answer: because Hans threw sheep's eyes at her
Context: The clothes all came off directly, because there were no buttons. Question: Why did the clothes come off directly from the Puddle-Ducks? Answer: There were no buttons.
Context: "Yes, this is certainly the wisest plan," said the written paper; "I really did not think of this. Now I am able, for the first time, to learn what is in me; and to know one's self is true progress. Question: What happened to the paper after it was tied in a bundle? Answer: it was thrown into a tub in a washhouse
Context: So they handed him out acorn-cupfuls of honey-dew through the window,
and he was not at all offended. He sat outside in the sun, and said--"Tiddly, widdly, widdly! Question: What did Mr. Jackson do to join the party after seeing that he could not fit through the front door? Answer: sat outside
Context: She went to the parsonage, and begged that she might be taken into service there. All the children liked her very much, but when they spoke about dress and grandeur and beauty she would shake her head. Question: Who took Karen into service? Answer: the pastor's wife
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. Who outstripped the Fenians of Eire, and why is this proverb used, 'As Roc came to the house of Fionn'?" When it had been cooked it was fetched to me for the purpose of dividing it. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: Who escaped Fionn in consequence of his swiftness and outstripped the Fenians of Eire? Answer: the giant
Context: Long, long ago, one bright autumn day in Japan, it happened, that a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab were playing together along the bank of a river. Then the monkey held up his persimmon-seed and said:  "I also have found something good! Question: Who played along the bank of a river? Answer: a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab
Context: The girl glanced round, and perceived that the voice came from a bird who was hanging in a cage by the wall. At last she reached the cellar, and there sat a very old woman nodding her head. Question: Who sat in the cellar? Answer: a very old woman
Context: Suddenly, close behind them, they heard a sigh, then a groan. ' With the first breath of flame that swept over her when she ran with her friends Snowflake had melted away, and a little soft haze floating upwards was all that remained of her. Question: What did Ivan and Marie do after Snowflake disappeared? Answer: wandered through the woods
Context: Apparently she was bent on the chase, for she carried a hunting-horn and a sheaf of arrows; and she led seven greyhounds along in a leash, while as many scenting hounds ran loose at her horse's side. But when the rider came to where he was, and understood his thoughts, she shook her head sadly. Question: Why did the lady shake her head? Answer: She was not the Blessed Virgin.
Context: Once Tsin Schi Huang was making a progress through the country. When he came to the plain of Bo Lang, Dschang Liang armed his people with iron maces in order to kill him. Question: Where did Dschang Liang go to flee from the Emperor's rage? Answer: a ruined bridge
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: How did the warriors feel? Answer: sad
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: What will the King have to give to be released? Answer: something he knows nothing about, and which he will find on his return home
Context: "'The whole world is but a series of miracles,' said the lecturer, 'but we are so accustomed to them that we call them everyday matters.' I declared that were I not such an old fellow, I would at once become a member of the Polytechnic Institution, that I might learn to look at the bright side of everything, although I was one of the happiest of men. Question: why does the man consider himself one of the happiest? Answer: he is welcomed in every town when he arrives
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: Why did everyone laugh? Answer: The poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see.
Context: Once upon a time there was a young man named Farquhar MacNeill. However, before he saw what he took to be the light from a cottage window on his left hand, some distance from the path, and, forgetting his Mistress's instructions that he was to follow the path right over the hill. Question: What did Farquhar's mistress do after he agreed to do so? Answer: pointed out to him the path that he was to follow, and told him that he would have no difficulty in finding the house
Context: But the seal catcher only laughed at them, and said that those seals were most worth killing. The seal catcher, much annoyed at his clumsiness, and also at the loss of his knife, went home to dinner in a very downcast frame of mind. Question: How did the man feel after he lost his knife and the seal got away? Answer: annoyed
Context: I shall be happier in my present state than I could have been as a man. I will cheer you by my songs, and strive to inspire in others the joy and lightsomeness of heart I feel in my present state. Question: What did Iadilla say his daily aim would be? Answer: to make his father amends for it as a harbinger of peace and joy
Context: The moment his eye fell upon this jet black braid he was delighted. " He fixed his snare firmly on a spot just where the sun must strike the land as it rose above the earth. Question: How did the boy catch the sun? Answer: fixed his snare firmly on a spot just where the sun must strike the land as it rose above the earth
Context: The door of the castle stood open, and they entered a great hall, and looked about them. They had hardly finished, when Jack opened yet a third door, and all three fell back in amazement, for this room as a mass of gold, so bright that their eyes grew sore as they looked at it. Then he went after them, and found them lying down to rest in the midst of a forest. Question: What did the brothers find at the castle? Answer: copper
Context: The lad carefully observed the command, and lay with his face covered, calmly awaiting the approach of the spirit which was to decide his good or evil fortune for all the days of his life. To these glowing words of promise and glory the boy never replied, but he lay without the least sign of discontent or murmuring until the ninth day, when he addressed his father as follows:  "My father, my dreams forbode evil. Question: How will Iadilla feel on the ninth day of his fast? Answer: hungry
Context: Osseo, with a sharp cry, fell trembling to the earth, where the others would have left him, but his good wife raised him up, and he sprang forward on the path, and with steps light as the reindeer he led the party, no longer decrepid and infirm, but a beautiful young man. I come to call you away from a scene that is stained with blood and tears. I have cast him down by my superior strength, and it is this strength I now exert for your happiness. Ascend, my son; ascend into the skies, and partake of the feast I have prepared for you in the stars, and bring with you those you love. Question: Why did Oweenee turn into an aged and feeble woman? Answer: She was cursed.
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' But though I can't take money,' says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.' Question: How will the king feel if Saint Kavin can make his goose as good as new? Answer: happy
Context: Lisa ate, Aina ate, and in a little while their baskets were full. They had never been so far in the great wood before, they could not find any road nor path, and soon the girls noticed that they had lost their way. Question: What did Aina and Lisa use to gather more raspberries? Answer: their pinafores
Context: "You have come just in the nick of time," said he, "for to-morrow I am to marry the princess. She will naturally agree to this, for she does not know that you made the spots, for only Christian hands can wash them out again, but not the hands of this pack of trolls. Question: Who was the only person that can save the prince? Answer: the maiden
Context: So they took him to be christened, and the parson said: 'You'll never be able to put that child in a decent bed on account of his prickles.' When the farmer came home he gave his wife and the maid the things they had asked for, and then he went behind the stove and gave Jack my Hedgehog the bagpipes. Question: What did the farmer and his wife do after their son was born? Answer: took him to be christened
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: What good fortune did Princess Terute have? Answer: a son born to her
Context: She answered: "Yes, it is no doubt my fate to grieve, and never be happy again. When the tar began to boil, the old man said: "Now throw your white lily into the kettle." Question: Why did the princess not want to throw the lily into the kettle? Answer: so fond had she grown of the beautiful flower
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: What did the Fairy give the prince when the time came? Answer: whatever gift he asked of her
Context: 'I am come by the powers of the agility of my arm and leg,' responded he, 'having heard there is not one man in the world more liberal in bestowing gifts than you, O Fionn. He then declared 'they were all liars who asserted that I never gave a refusal to any person.' When the Fenian chiefs saw that, they started in pursuit of the giant, while I and the band of minstrels of the town went to the top of the dun to watch their proceedings. Question: Why did the Fenian chiefs pursue the giant? Answer: They wanted the haunch bone.
Context: Then Shasasa took the Magic Mirror and hid it beneath her pillow, and after that for many years Gopani-Kufa ruled his people both well and wisely, so that all men loved him, and never once did he need to ask Sipao to grant him a wish. Up the Zambesi they came, and they fought long and fiercely with Gopani-Kufa; but, because of the power of the Magic Mirror, he beat them, and they fled to the sea-coast. Question: Who is Rei? Answer: a cunning man who sought to discover whence sparng Gopani-Kufa's power
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: Who did Setanta resolve to accept as his instructor? Answer: Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster.
Context: "Don't stand there and laugh in such a stupid way," said the woman, "but come and help a poor, feeble old woman. He found it all very amusing, and said that if she had already been standing there a hundred years, then she could probably hold out for another hundred years or more. Question: How long had the woman been standing there? Answer: more than a hundred years
Context: He showed her his whistle, and blew into one end, and all the hares darted away across the hills in all directions, and then he blew into the other, and they came trotting up from all sides, and once more stood in rank and file. " Yes, indeed, that would suit her right down to the ground; she would gladly give him two kisses with every dollar, and feel grateful, besides. Question: What did the chamber-maid offer Esben in exchange for the whistle? Answer: a hundred dollars
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: Who approached, fearless and strong because of the Holy Sign he bore? Answer: Earl St. Clair
Context: This curious instrument was invented by Kotei, one of the three Chinese Emperors of the Mythological age. As she looked at the North Star, strange to relate, it shot forth vivid flashes of lightning in every direction. Question: Who was Kotei? Answer: one of the three Chinese Emperors of the mythological age
Context: 'Why did you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she wanted one?' Then he went into the house and took away everything he could find, and sold the house to a friend of his who had long wished to have it, and his sister had no home to go to. Question: Why did the girl go into the forest? Answer: She did not want to meet her brother again.
Context: When the man opened the door, everything within was so beautiful that Isaac could not get over his admiration. Their father must have quieted them, for they were very friendly and amiable, and told Isaac he must use his guest-right, and sit down and drink with them; for Isaac had risen to leave the table, saying he had satisfied his hunger. Question: What happened no water how much Isaac ate or drank? Answer: His plate was never empty.
Context: The lad carefully observed the command, and lay with his face covered, calmly awaiting the approach of the spirit which was to decide his good or evil fortune for all the days of his life. The son assented; and covering himself more closely, that he might shut out the light which prompted him to complain, he lay till the eleventh day, when he repeated his request. The son moaned, and the father added:  "Will you bring shame upon your father when his sun is falling in the west?" Question: How did the father support his son's fast? Answer: encouraged him to persevere
Context: Seven years had passed, and the king was expected home from the war. They let them down from the tower at night, to seek their fortune in the wide, wide world. Question: Why did the maid not give her son a gift? Answer: She had nothing to gift him.
Context: Wassamo felt himself moved, he knew not how, and placed upon a couch. It keeps me very busy, but I am hale for my age, and I love to be employed. I have often wished to get one of your race to marry among us. He was silent, and the Old Spirit continued: "Your wants will all be supplied; but you must be careful not to stray far from the lodge. Question: How will the Old Spirit's daughter feel about marrying Wassamo? Answer: happy
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: Who was the second snake trying to find? Answer: the snake from the pot
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Putting up his spade, he wended his way homewards, and going straight to his master, he told him the whole story. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: Why did the small woman punish the poor man? Answer: He ruined her home.
Context: When they had traveled for some time they reached a cross-road. "I will give you a token by which you may tell," said Silverwhite, "so long as the water runs clear in this spring you will know that I am alive. Question: Why did the two foster-brethren decide to go separate ways? Answer: It would be best of them to try their luck singly.
Context: "That I cannot do" returned the other, "because she has a bit of bread in the form of a cross in her pocket." The woman, who had been unable to catch up with her neighbor, reached the church at Hanger alone. Question: What happened because the woman had been unable to catch up with her neighbor? Answer: She reached the church at Hanger alone.
Context: 'Is that all, and is this how you leave me, you brute, you,' says I. 'You ugly unnatural baste, and is this the way you serve me at last? So I told him how I was a little overtaken in liquor at the master's, and how I was cast on a dissolute island, and how I lost my way in the bog, and the thief of an eagle promised to fly me out of it, and how, instead of that, he had fled me up to the moon. Question: How did Daniel recognize the man in the moon? Answer: by his bush
Context: One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home. When the girls looked into the basket they saw a pair of most beautiful bracelets of precious stones, dark red, and made in the shape of a ripe raspberry and with an inscription: 'To Lisa and Aina'; beside them there was a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm: on it was inscribed 'Otto, never destroy the helpless!' Question: Why wasn't the big sister able to sleep? Answer: She thought the wolves had eaten them up.
Context: Yours is one of those deep-thinking natures, one of those highly gifted minds that astonishes the world." " I have not the slightest intention of doing so," said the snail. " Question: What kind of life does the snail think the rose tree has had? Answer: easy
Context: When the Prince reached Omi he found the people in a state of great excitement and fear. It is indeed a matter for wonder that here in this place, so near the capital, a wicked monster has dared to take up his abode and be the terror of the King's subjects. Question: Why was there great excitement and fear in Omi? Answer: A terrible monster had appeared in the mountains.
Context: Murmur Goose-Egg wanted the king to be the first to try the bridge with him. If she does not catch hold of me, then I'll certainly not catch hold of her," said the devil. " Question: Why did Murmur Goose-Egg want the king to be the first to try the bridge? Answer: so the devil would have his soul
Context: Both of them have made a botch of their errand," said he, "and are causing the bride to wait in vain!" And they took an oath that they would never again seek a bride for the river-god. Question: How was the evil custom came to an end? Answer: The sorcerers and witches took an oath that they would never again seek a bride for the river-god.
Context: Not until long afterward was she altogether herself, and she told how she had firmly believed that her sweetheart himself, and all their friends and relatives had been there. He took her straight back to the village with him, and so that they need fear no such deviltry in the future, they celebrated their wedding while she was still clad in the bridal outfit of the underground folk. Question: Who did the bride think the trolls were? Answer: her sweetheart himself, and all their friends and relatives
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: What happened after the elder son left his home? Answer: He would never even hear his name mentioned, and died at last without ever seeing his face, leaving to the younger, as he had promised, all his lands, as well as his money.
Context: Finn, bearing the head, passed through the sleepers into the palace and spiked the head on his own spear, and drove the spear-end into the ground at Conn's end of the great hall. Having rested himself sufficiently he went forth and shouted to the sleeping host, and called the captains by their names, beginning with Conn. They awoke and rose up, though dazed and stupid, for it was difficult for any man, no matter how he had stopped his ears, to avoid hearing Finn when he sent forth his voice of power. Question: How did the soldiers feel waking up? Answer: dazed
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: How did the seal catcher feel after the stranger wanted his order completed by that evening? Answer: disappointed
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: What part of the hog did the giant plan to give Fionn and his hounds? Answer: one hindquarter
Context: There was but little light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and its fitful flashes, by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness, served rather to increase than to dispel her fears. cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge; "there are two corpses clothed with garments!" Question: Why did the wife believe the voice was only the gusts of wind? Answer: The boy could not speak.
Context: And the second road was as different from the first as it well could be. It was a bonnie, bonnie road, winding up a hillside among brackens, and heather, and golden-yellow whins, and it looked as if it would be pleasant travelling, to pass that way. Question: What did the Queen of Fairies explain to Thomas after he saw the three roads? Answer: where these three roads lead to
Context: THE little Flopsy Bunnies slept delightfully in the warm sun. From the lawn beyond the garden came the distant clacketty sound of the mowing machine. Question: What did the mouse do to awaken Benjamin Bunny? Answer: It picked over the rubbish among the jam pots and rustled across the paper bag.
Context: cried two young men, 'and you will come with us this instant before the judge, and answer for it.' In answer, the poor man told, in a few words, how he had begged the houses from his brother, and produced the deed of gift which made him their owner. Question: Where did the two young men take the elder brother? Answer: the court-house
Context: 'And my wife told me that I myself was dead,' said the man in the coffin. But at the sound of his voice the two men were so terrified that they ran straight home. Question: How will the two men feel after they hear the man from the coffin talk? Answer: terrified
Context: Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there, and sickness was a thing unknown. They were all tired of their long, long lives, and longed to go to the happy land of contentment called Paradise of which the priests had told them centuries ago. Question: What had never happened at the island within the memory of the islanders? Answer: No man had ever died there and sickness was a thing unknown.
Context: Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. And she caused a great wind to spring up, and it came soughing through the house from the north-west; and the King said, "This is the sigh of the winter night." Question: Why did Murtough suddenly scream out of his sleep? Answer: He heard the crash of falling timbers and the noise of the magic hosts, and he smelled the strong smell of fire in the palace.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Who did the Abbot pray for from his heart? Answer: all men
Context: She said, "I would like to go to the place of the breaking of daylight. But," he resumed, "before we part forever, I must go and try to find what manitoes rule the earth, and see which of them will be friendly to us." Question: Where does the sister wish to dwell? Answer: the East
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: What put the daughter to sleep? Answer: that truly melodious music
Context: In a moment the Princess Hyacinthia had changed herself, the Prince, and his charger into a thick wood where a thousand paths and roads crossed each other. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: Where did the servants find themselves? Answer: back at the same spot they had started from
Context: 'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given, and to whom they belong. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story, and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see. Question: What did the judge ask the farmer? Answer: if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house
Context: And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door was open, and from within there was heard a low, pleasant frizzling, like that which is heard when one whisks yellow batter with a wooden ladle into a hot frying-pan. When His angel is your guide,                Little Lasse, Lasse,           Then no harm can e'er betide,           Even on the other side                Where the wild beasts wander. Question: Why did the dream-boy tell Little Lasse to wait? Answer: The dream-boy wanted to chain him.
Context: Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax and pulled it up by the roots, which was very painful. All the flax, even to the last stalk, was used in making this one piece. Question: What did the flax think when it was put on the spinning wheel? Answer: "I have been very happy"
Context: In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife. The nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent. Question: What happened after the charcoal-burner and his wife got married? Answer: Bad times came, and they grew poorer and poorer, and the nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent.
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: What did the child look like from the waist upwards? Answer: a hedgehog
Context: Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods with nobody near her but her little dog; for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning at her door. The cradle was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and ornaments were of the same precious stuff. Question: Who did the woman see gliding away into the forest? Answer: a handsome young man
Context: When my husband heard him say this he could not rid himself of the idea that by disclosing these criminal proceedings the State would be indebted to him, and that it would surely aid his plans for advancement. Then he drew up his report, in which the officer was indicted. Whole mountains of paper money, silk and straw figures were burned, and the ceremonies have not as yet come to an end. Question: What will happen to the officer after he is investigated? Answer: The officer will be condemned to death.
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' 'You sent me, madam,' answered Sylvia, 'to the Court of Iris, on whom you had bestowed the gift of beauty. It seemed to me that her loveliness, which fairly dazzled me at first, had absolutely deprived her of the use of any of her other gifts or graces. In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Some time passed in all the usual delights of the Flower-Fairy's palace, and then she sent for Sylvia again. Daphne was one of the princesses who asked for the gift of eloquence, if I remember rightly.' It is true that she speaks well, and her expressions are well chosen. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. Question: Why was the Fairy interested in Sylvia's reports? Answer: Sylvia learned something from her stays.
Context: "O, I am the big crooked one of Etnedal," said the monster troll. But Per Gynt knew better, for had he shot another time, the bullet would have rebounded and hit him. Question: Who took hold of the great troll? Answer: Per Gynt and his dogs
Context: But presently, to his great joy, his guide approached him, and said, "Now you are at liberty to return home to your wife and children. asked the seal catcher eagerly, overjoyed at the prospect of being restored safely to the upper world, and to his family. Question: What did the seal catcher need to do before he could leave? Answer: take a solemn oath never to wound a seal again
Context: Then was heard a low sound like thunder, and the earth seemed to tremble, and after that they distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant. It is not," said the Druid, "but it is the man who is to conquer Midna. Question: Why was every face pale? Answer: They distinctly heard a footfall like the slow, deliberate tread of a giant.
Context: After they had walked a while, they came to a little hut, lying deep in the dark forest. By then the king's daughter was very thirsty, and wanted to go into the little hut with her step-sister, in order to get a drink of water. Question: Who did the king's daughter see sitting in the little hut? Answer: an old woman
Context: ONCE upon a time there were four little Rabbits, and their names were-- Flopsy, Mopsy, Cotton-tail, and Peter. They lived with their Mother in a sand-bank, underneath the root of a very big fir tree. Question: Where did the four little Rabbits live? Answer: underneath the root of a very big fir tree
Context: One night, when all were sleeping, it chanced that he heard a knocking at the window, and a voice which said: "Come, Silverwhite, I have to talk to you!" When he reached the open air, there stood a huge and savage-looking troll. Question: Who was knocking at Silverwhite's window? Answer: a huge and savage-looking troll
Context: "I wonder," said the giant, on reaching his lodge and overlooking his beavers, "what dog it is that has thus cheated me. The next day he pursued his hunting at the beaver-dam near the lake, and he was again followed by the little man with the shell. Question: Where was the giant taking the beavers from? Answer: a beaver-dam that belonged to the little shell-man and his sister
Context: Tom Kitten was quite unable to jump when walking upon his hind legs in trousers. He came up the rockery by degrees, breaking the ferns, and shedding buttons right and left. Question: Which kitten was unable to jump up the wall? Answer: Tom Kitten
Context: The King and all the courtiers could not conceal their joy and astonishment, and the marriage of the three Princes was celebrated at once. The festivities lasted several months, and then each king and queen departed to their own kingdom and lived happily ever after.(1) Question: How will the king and all thee courtiers react to the cat's response? Answer: joy and astonishment
Context: Then they took counsel together, and watched her to see what she did. Then she threw herself on her knees by the edge, and peered into the dark water, but the trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it. Question: Why didn't the youngest sister know what happened to the fish? Answer: The youngest sister was away in the woods.
Context: ONCE or twice something moved about with a rustle and a splash amongst the rushes at the side of the pond. AND a shoal of other little fishes put their heads out, and laughed at Mr. Jeremy Fisher. Question: What fish did Mr. Jeremy actually get? Answer: little Jack Sharp the stickleback covered with spines
Context: On the following day a banquet was held, and the princess herself filled a goblet, sent it to me by one of her attendants, and said: 'Widowed early in life, I opposed the wishes of my stern father and fled to this spot. I was given a month's leave and the following day she dismissed me with a splendid retinue. Question: How did the princess feel after the general defeated Tschauna? Answer: happy
Context: The king began to revive at these hopeful words, and took Moti off to his stable where he bade him choose for himself any horse he liked. There were plenty of fine horses in the stalls, but to the king's astonishment Moti chose a poor little rat of a pony that was used to carry grass and water for the rest of the stable. Question: How did the king feel after Moti offered to help him? Answer: happy
Context: The poor dog, who was lying stretched out in the sun not far off, heard all they said, and was very sad to think that the next day would be his last. They will be sure to lay the child in the shade behind the hedge while they are at work; you must lie by its side, just as if you were watching it. Question: How did the dog feel after hearing their conversation? Answer: Very sad
Context: When he had gone to bed, the princess sat looking out of the window. O, it is in the wardrobe there by the wall," said the giant. " Question: What was the princess doing when she asked where the giant kept his heart? Answer: sat looking out of the window
Context: But soon their shouts of triumphs began to die away, and they muttered and whispered to each other with looks of something like fear on their faces. It was the sound of human footsteps, which were so free and untrammelled that they knew at once that the stranger, whoever he was, was as yet untouched by any charm. Question: What did the goblins hear that filled their hearts with dread? Answer: the sound of human footsteps
Context: Once upon a time there was a strong young farmer who came home late one evening from market. He was astonished, and climbed the wall around the gardens, but there was not a human being in sight; all he saw was, at a distance, something which appeared to be a dog, looking up at the moon. Question: Where did the farmer find the elixir of life? Answer: the gardens
Context: From all sides bright-colored clouds came floating in, and the courtyard was filled with a purple ether. Dschou Bau had wine and food brought and entertained them all in the most splendid way. A wrong which has been done me, permits me to pass the bounds of what is fitting, and encourages me to ask a favor of you. And the following day he sent off fifteen hundred soldiers to stand guard by the Lake of the Maidens. Question: What will Dschou Bau do when she asks for his help? Answer: send off fifteen hundred soldiers to stand guard by the Lake of the Maidens
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: Why was the man with twelve eyes angry with the ram? Answer: The ram was rude to their guests.
Context: Timmy Willie was a little country mouse who went to town by mistake in a hamper. Johnny Town-mouse and his friends noticed it; but they were too well bred to make personal remarks; only one of them asked Timmy Willie if he had ever been in a trap? Question: How were Timmy Willie and Johnny Town-Mouse different from each other? Answer: Timmy Willie liked the country and Johnny Town-Mouse liked the town.
Context: Hidesato felt very sorry for the Dragon King on hearing his story, and readily promised to do what he could to help him. So Hidesato was conducted to the palace of the Dragon King, under the bridge. Question: Why did Hidesato's clothes not feel damp as he passed through the flood? Answer: The waters parted to let them pass.
Context: 'My dear,' said she to her husband, when she was beginning to recover, 'I think I'd feel better if I was to see my father and mother and sisters once more. She rang the bell, and in a short time she had her mother and father and married sisters about her, and they laughed till they cried for joy at finding her safe back again. Question: What did the youngest princess want to do after she recovered? Answer: see her father and mother and sisters
Context: The maiden blushed with confusion; then she stepped up to the sick-bed. While she was feeling his pulse, it seemed to him as though she brought the fragrance of orchards with her. Question: Why did this illness befall on Kung? Answer: His heart beated far too stormily.
Context: Zengi-mizi was not an ordinary wasp, for the spirit of the father of Gopani-Kufa had entered it, so that it was exceedingly wise. In times of doubt Gopani-Kufa always consulted the wasp as to what had better be done, so on this occasion he took it out of the little rush basket in which he carried it, saying: 'Zengi-mizi, what gift shall I ask of Insato to-morrow when he would know the reward he shall bestow on me for saving his life?' Question: Who is Zengo-mizi? Answer: It is a wasp containing the spirit of Gopani-Kufa's father. It is very wise.
Context: The next morning, before dawn, the giant went to the forest again. " He told him what had happened at the giant's, and said that now he would go to the well in the church, if only he knew the way. Question: What did the wolf do to get them across the lake? Answer: swam
Context: At once a hand reached for it and a voice said: "For thirty long years you kept my treasure from me, and from a poor farmer-lad you have grown to be a wealthy man. Now you have enough, and I would like to have my fire-ball back again!" Question: Why did the fox decide to take back his treasure? Answer: The farmer had enough wealth.
Context: At the time of the seven empires there lived a man by the name of Si-Men Bau, who was a governor on the Yellow River. The sorcerers and witches who dwelt there said: "Every year the river-god looks for a bride, who must be selected from among the people. Question: What happened when parents could not pay the sorcerers to bribe them? Answer: Their daughter was chosen to be the bride of the river-god, and was forced to accept the wedding gifts which the sorcerers brought her.
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: How did Roc feel when he heard his betrothed boast of the swiftness and bravery of her lover? Answer: hurt
Context: Murmur was given a few cart-loads of provisions in his big knapsack, and once more set out. But the troll was not out in the open, and the mountain was closed, so Murmur could not get it. Question: What was Murmur given before he set out? Answer: a few cart-loads of provisions in his big knapsack
Context: Now it chanced one day, as the king's daughter was sitting alone in her room, that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared. But the queen had the last word in the end, and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess, even though it be against her will. Question: What did the queen order one of her daughters do? Answer: accompany the princess, even though it be against her will
Context: The wife took the box, and opening it carefully took out a metal disk with a handle attached. What I have brought you is called a mirror, and whoever looks into its clear surface can see their own form reflected there. Although there are none to be found in this out of the way place, yet they have been in use in the capital from the most ancient times. Question: Why did the wife never see a mirror before? Answer: She had been born and bred in the rural province of Echigo.
Context: Once upon a time there was a fisherman who had a wife and three children. When he came home he put all the fishes together into a great dish, but he kept the Crab separate because it shone so beautifully, and placed it upon a high shelf in the cupboard. Question: Why did the fisherman keep the Golden Crab separate from the other fishes? Answer: The Golden Crab shone so beautifully.
Context: 'That's a lie,' said Walter, 'I am not at all frightened, but it is more amusing when there are two. Come with me, Jonas, and you shall have the skin, and I will be content with the ears and the tail.' Question: What did Jonas want Lisa to do if she went with Walter? Answer: sit on a stone and look on
Context: As the goat flew upward, the comrade swung himself up in back, and then they were off like the wind through the clouds: it was not a long journey. Suddenly they stood before a wall of rock, she knocked, and then they took their way into the interior of the hill, to the troll who was her dearest. " Question: Why did the princess give the shears to the troll? Answer: so the suitor would not find them again
Context: The King of the Polar Bears lived among the icebergs in the far north country. The seals were afraid when he drew near, and tried to avoid him; but the gulls, both white and gray, loved him because he left the remnants of his feasts for them to devour. Question: Who had a body that was thickly covered with long, white hair that glistened like silver under the rays of the midnight sun? Answer: the King of the Polar Bears
Context: Leelinau was the favorite daughter of a hunter, who lived on the lake shore near the base of the lofty highlands, called Kaug Wudjoo. In such places she would often, with her face turned upward, linger long in contemplation of the air, as if she were invoking her guardian spirit, and beseeching him to lighten her sadness. Question: Where did Leelinau live? Answer: Kaug Wudjoo
Context: Then Jack rode on in front pointing out the way, and the King reached his own country in safety. He also told her how he had been obliged to pledge his word to give the creature the first thing which met him outside his castle gate, and he felt very sad at the thought that she had been the first thing to meet him. Question: Why was the princess willing to go with Jack my Hedgehog? Answer: because of the great love she bore to her dear old father
Context: In the middle of the plain he perceived a post, and something waving at its top. The Indians around would have snatched it away had not a lucky current of air just then buoyed him up. In a moment Maidwa came past with rustling wings, and as he flew by, giving the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp, his limbs extended and quivered in an agony, the scalp adhered, and Maidwa, in his own person, walked into the lodge and sat down, feeling perfectly at home. What was the delight of Maidwa to behold, instead of a withered old man, far advanced in years and stricken in sorrow, a bright and cheerful youth, who glittered with life as he stood up before him. Question: What will the Indians do when they see the scalp moving away? Answer: try to catch it
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: Why did Hyacinthia turn into a flower? Answer: She wanted to be stepped on.
Context: When they were through she gave Esben a whistle which had the power that if he blew into one end, whatever he wished scattered was scattered to all the winds, and when he blew into the other, all came together again. And if the whistle passed from his possession, it would return as soon as he wished it back. Question: How did Esben feel about the whistle? Answer: delighted
Context: It was late in autumn and all the trees had shed their leaves, but no sooner did the ashes touch their branches than the cherry trees, the plum trees, and all other blossoming shrubs burst into bloom. The old man's garden was suddenly transformed into a beautiful picture of spring. Question: What happened because the story of the old man's garden spread far and wide? Answer: People from far and near came to see the wonderful sight.
Context: When Murmur Goose-Egg had nearly finished threshing, the enemy broke into the land, and war began. Then the king told him to gather people about him, and go to meet the foe, and do battle with him, for he thought the enemy would probably kill him. Question: What did Murmur need to fight the enemy? Answer: a proper club
Context: And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should be well cared for. "Oh, on my honour, it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island; and I will keep him, as he is trained. The Queen was now carrying the twelfth child, and when she was lying-in, the King took me with him to watch the baby. Question: Why did the king take the wolf to the queen? Answer: The king wanted the wolf to watch the baby.
Context: "Well, I suppose you have seen all sorts of beautiful things?" It is dearer to me than anything else I have," said the king, "but my son is just as dear to me, and therefore I will give you the ring. Question: What happened because the youth spoke to the prince? Answer: The youth begged the king for the ring on his finger.
Context: Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the Emperor Yuhi. This rebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which he fought to this end. Question: Why did Kotei declare war against Shiyu? Answer: Shiyu was a rebel.
Context: Shiyu by using his magic art quickly passed over with his army and shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank. When Kotei found his march checked he was wild with disappointment, for he had very nearly overtaken the rebel when the river stopped him. Question: What did Shiyu do after he crossed the river? Answer: shut himself up in a fortress on the opposite bank
Context: Before the earth was separated from the heavens, all there was was a great ball of watery vapor called chaos. The third was called the Dark Lord, and he was the ruler of the water. Question: What will happen when the five Ancients set all their primal spirit into motion? Answer: Water and earth will sink down.
Context: The next day the two sisters were at the ball, and so was Cinderella, but dressed more magnificently than before. When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them: If they had been well diverted, and if the fine lady had been there. Question: Why didn't the guards notice Cinderella? Answer: She was very meanly dressed, and had more the air of a poor country wench than a gentlewoman.
Context: When he came near enough for the soldiers to see him, they sent to ask whether he had a mind to attack them. "I don't care a fig for these blueberries," said Murmur Goose-Egg, and feasted on quite at ease. Question: Why was Murmur not wounded by the bullets? Answer: He had the knapsack before him/
Context: And so he took his drum, sabre, cock's feather, clasp-knife, pop-gun and air-pistol, and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves. Perhaps the very ones which killed the ram were still sitting there in a corner. Yes, it was not at all safe here, and there were no other people to be seen in the neighbourhood. Question: What happened after Walter beat his drum? Answer: A crow flew up from the ditch.
Context: Maidwa thought that the old man did not know that he was standing near the door. Maidwa was very hungry, and seeing the limited scale of the old man's housekeeping, he thought his chance for a supper was very slight. He felt ashamed to think that he had done so, but before he could speak the old man said:  "Eat, nay grandchild. Maidwa was surprised, on dipping in his ladle, to see that it was full. Although he emptied it a second time, it was still again filled and refilled till his hunger was entirely satisfied. To tell you more I am not permitted, but go on as you have begun and you will not be disappointed. Question: Why did Maidwa set forth in better spirits than at any time since he had started? Answer: He was well-rested.
Context: When they had lived a few years happily together, the King's mother, who was a wicked old woman, began to slander the young Queen, and said to the King:  'She is only a low-born beggar maid that you have married; who knows what mischief she is up to? If she is deaf and can't speak, she might at least laugh; depend upon it, those who don't laugh have a bad conscience.' Question: What happened because the King's mother harped so long on the subject of the girl? Answer: The King condemned his son's beautiful wife to death.
Context: Strange to say, as soon as she began to repeat this little song the peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman was standing, till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she was able to take it up in her hands. She could not go on with her work, so happy and excited was she, so she put all the clothes back in her bamboo basket, and with the basket on her back and the peach in her hand she hurried homewards. Question: What happened as the woman repeated the song? Answer: The peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank.
Context: Finally they called Notscha in to them and ordered him to be reconciled to his father. Then they dismissed them both and seated themselves to play chess. When Notscha attempted to battle with him he raised his arm, and a pagoda shaped itself out of red, whirling clouds and closed around Notscha. Question: Who came to stop Notscha from pursuing his father again? Answer: the old Buddha of the Radiance of the Light
Context: "Well, since I do happen to be here, I will at least make the attempt," said the prince. " And I want to try to deliver my brothers, who stand outside, turned to stone, and I would like to save you as well." " Aha," thought the prince under the bed, "that is where we will find it!" Question: What will the prince do after finding out where the giant's heart was? Answer: look for it
Context: That was quite impossible, said the troll, for he had locked them up in a chest with three locks, and had thrust the key into his hollow tooth. Then the princess told him that she had now given him her ball of golden twine. Question: Why did the troll think it was impossible for the youth to have the shears? Answer: He had locked them up in a chest with three locks and thrust the key into his hollow tooth.
Context: A long, long while ago, before ever the White Men were seen in Senna, there lived a man called Gopani-Kufa. An enormous python had caught an antelope and coiled itself around it. Question: What did Gopani-Jufa come across while hunting? Answer: An enormous python had caught an antelope and coiled itself around it; the
antelope, striking out in despair with its horns, had pinned the
python's neck to a tree, and so deeply had its horns sunk in the soft
wood that neither creature could get away.
Context: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man was determined to sell him to the butcher. He soon understood that he was to be killed, and he said to himself:  "Barbarous, indeed, is my master! Question: Why did the woman plead her husband to spare the monkey? Answer: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal.
Context: He thought how foolish it was to waste more time in looking for the hermits in this way. So he decided to go at once to the shrine of Jofuku, who is worshiped as the patron god of the hermits in the south of Japan. Question: What did Sentaro want from Jofuku? Answer: show him the way to the hermit who could give him what he wanted so much to find
Context: They were real wampum, white and blue, shining and beautiful; and the young man, placing them in his bosom, set off; but as he did not seem quite steady in his belief of the strange woman's story, the dog Spirit-Iron, taking his arm, kept close by his side, and gave him many words of encouragement as they went along. She ran immediately and brought a cedar cradle; but he said:  "That is not my cradle." To get free of the old Toad-Woman, it was necessary that the young man should kill a fat bear; and, being directed by Spirit-Iron, who was very wise in such a matter, he secured the fattest in all that country; and having stripped a tall pine of all its bark and branches, he perched the carcass in the top, with its head to the east and its tail due west. Question: How will the Toad-Woman feel when the young man begins to question her? Answer: nervous
Context: It was the Eve of Samhain, which we Christians call All Hallows' Eve. The King of Ireland, Conn, the Hundred-Fighter, sat at supper in his palace at Tara. Chief amongst them was Gaul mac Morna, a huge and strong warrior, and Captain of all the Fians ever since that battle in which Finn's father had been killed. Question: Why was Art the Solitary called so? Answer: He had no brothers.
Context: At length the mother declared that she would wait no longer, and must go and see what had happened. As the bride was nowhere in the kitchen or the dairy, the old woman went into the stable. Question: Where did the mother find the young woman? Answer: the stable
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who reigned over a great kingdom. It is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned, not alone in the royal castle, but throughout the land; for the queen had been beloved of all. Question: Why was there grief throughout the land? Answer: The queen fell ill and died.
Context: They were always snapping at each other as they went along, and always wanting to have a fight. This made Momotaro very cross, and at last he sent the dog on ahead with a flag and put the monkey behind with a sword, and he placed himself between them with a war-fan, which is made of iron. Question: What did Momotaro carry? Answer: a war-fan
Context: Jegu declared that nothing could be easier, and then taking off his hat, he thanked the dwarf heartily, and led his horses back to the farm. Next morning was a holiday, and Barbaik was awake earlier than usual, as she wished to get through her work as soon as possible, and be ready to start for a dance which was to be held some distance off. Question: Why did Barbaik wake up earlier than usual? Answer: She wished to get through her work as soon as possible and be ready to start for a dance.
Context: She opened the door of the TOP oven;--out came a rich steamy flavour of veal and ham, and there stood a fine brown pie,--and through a hole in the top of the pie-crust there was a glimpse of a little tin patty-pan! Duchess drew a long breath--  "Then I must have been eating MOUSE!... "I think I should feel QUITE well if he only felt my pulse," said Duchess, backing away from the magpie, who sidled up with something in his beak. Do you not think that I had better go home before it gets dark?" " Question: What was in the top oven? Answer: a fine brown pie with a steamy flavour of veal and ham
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What did the wife tell Morraha to take? Answer: the bridle in the window
Context: Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, but visited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest he should be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and shepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport. Question: Why did Puck decide to play a trick on a couple? Answer: He grew tired of cowboys and shepherds.
Context: Momotaro only laughed scornfully:  "What is that you are saying? If you will take such a rude fellow with you as one of your followers, I shall be very grateful to you." Question: Why did the dog's manner change? Answer: He did not realize the man was Momotaro.
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Who was the next giant? Answer: a beautiful boy with three heads on him
Context: Of all the young gallants in Scotland in the thirteenth century, there was none more gracious and debonair than Thomas Learmont, Laird of the Castle of Ercildoune, in Berwickshire. He loved books, poetry, and music, which were uncommon tastes in those days; and, above all, he loved to study nature, and to watch the habits of the beasts and birds that made their abode in the fields and woods round about his home. Question: What did Thomas Learmont love to do? Answer: study nature, and to watch the habits of the beasts and birds that made their abode in the fields and woods round about his home
Context: When the princess had seen the snows of fifteen winters, it happened that a great war broke out. Question: What happened when a great war broke out? Answer: The king had to march against the foe.
Context: The son had often heard tell of her, and one fall, when his parents had already come home from the mountain pasture, he put on his full uniform, saddled his service horse, thrust his pistols in the holsters, and thus rode up into the hills. When he rode toward the pasture, such a fire burned in the herdsman's hut that it lit up every road, and then he knew that the mountain folk were inside. Question: What happened because such a fire burned in the herdsman's hut? Answer: It lit up every road.
Context: He awoke in a fright, while the hamper was being lifted into the carrier's cart. Then there was a jolting, and a clattering of horse's feet; other packages were thrown in; for miles and miles-jolt-jolt-jolt! Question: How did Timmy Willie feel when he woke up? Answer: frightened
Context: In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife. The nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent. Question: Why did the king stop to listen after he heard a sound of sobbing? Answer: thought that perhaps he might be able to give some help
Context: cried the antelope, 'for I was doing no harm, yet I have been caught. Come back here with the new moon, when I shall have eaten the antelope, and I will reward you as I promised.' Question: Who did Gopani-Kufa set free? Answer: the python
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. But he liked to sing and to dance, and that is what he did all day long, and far into the night as well. Question: How did the woman feel about her son singing and dancing? Answer: unhappy
Context: cried Earl St. Clair eagerly, "ere he taketh on him the Elfin shape? "There is something that thou couldst do, Sir Earl," whispered the Goblin, "but to essay it were a desperate attempt. Question: What did Earl St. Clair need to take from the red marble table? Answer: an emerald goblet
Context: 'More wood,' cried Guddhi, and they all ran and gathered wood and heaped it on the flames, which leaped and roared and sputtered. And the fishes gathered round it as they had done on the top of the cliff, and found the flames as hot as before, and that fire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever. Question: Why did the fish tribe feel warm again after falling into the water? Answer: The fire, driven by the strong wind had followed them right down to the bottom of the pool.
Context: ONCE upon a time there were four little Rabbits, and their names were-- Flopsy, Mopsy, Cotton-tail, and Peter. They lived with their Mother in a sand-bank, underneath the root of a very big fir tree. Question: Why does Mrs. Rabbit warn her children to not go into Mr. McGregor's garden? Answer: Because their father had an accident there
Context: A famous hunter who lived in a remote part of the North had a fair wife and two sons, who were left in the lodge every day while he went out in quest of the animals whose flesh was their principal support. While thus engaged, they began to take note that a young man visited the lodge during their father's absence, and that these visits were constantly renewed. Question: Where were the fair wife and two sons left every day while the hunter went out? Answer: in the lodge
Context: 'The town is easy to get into, but more difficult to get out of,' sighed Hyacinthia. ' The first day passed, and then the second, and at last the third also, but Prince Milan did not return, for he had not taken Hyacinthia's advice. Question: What did Hyacinthia change into? Answer: a white milestone
Context: Then he grew angry, stood up, took his club, pounded the ground with it, and asked whether they wanted to take the food from his mouth with the blueberries they were blowing out at him from their clumsy blow-pipes. When Murmur came back and asked for more work, the king was at a loss, for he had felt sure that now he was rid of him. Question: Where did the king send Murmur? Answer: the devil's place
Context: This man's name was Ko-ko, the Owl; and hearing much of the wonderful achievements of the Wearer of the Ball, Ko-ko put on a big look, and announced that he was going to do something extraordinary himself. He would have taken away Onwee's war-club too, if he could have carried it; but although he was twice the size and girth of Onwee, he had not the strength to lift it; so he borrowed a club from an old chief, who was purblind, and mistook Ko-ko for his brother who was a brave man; and raising a terrible tumult with his voice, and a great dust with his heels, Ko-ko set out. Question: What did Ko-ko announce? Answer: He was going to do something extraordinary himself.
Context: So he was brought to a spot surrounded by extensive buildings. When the cymbals and kettledrums reechoed through all the courts, they deafened the ear. Question: What did the old woman teach Aduan? Answer: taught him the dance of the flying thunders of Tsian-Tang River and the music that calms the winds on the sea of Dung-Ting
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. This time he had to fight with a giant with two heads on him. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " Question: Why did everyone dance? Answer: Tom was playing the flute.
Context: Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy, and had the smith make an iron ax of five hundred-weights. He chopped down big pine and fir trees, as thick as masts, and all that he found on the king's ground, as well as what he found on that of his neighbors. Question: Where did Murmur Goose-Egg go to to get an axe? Answer: the smithy
Context: The little lady was a dancer, and she stretched out both her arms, and raised one of her legs so high, that the tin soldier could not see it at all, and he thought that she, like himself, had only one leg. " That is the wife for me," he thought; "but she is too grand, and lives in a castle, while I have only a box to live in, five-and-twenty of us altogether, that is no place for her. Question: Why did the tin soldier think that the little lady had one leg? Answer: because she was dancing
Context: Once upon a time, in the city of Shansi, there lived a scholar who
found the company of others too noisy for him. Yet he suffered because there were always so many
gnats and fleas in his room that he could not sleep at night. Question: Who found the company of others too noisy for him? Answer: the scholar
Context: IT is said that the effect of eating too much lettuce is "soporific." They had a large family, and they were very improvident and cheerful. Question: How did the story describe the Flopsy Bunnies? Answer: improvident and cheerful
Context: When he arrived in the neighbourhood everything seemed strange. Worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles. Question: What did Farquhar do when he was in great distress? Answer: looked about for someone to tell him what it all meant
Context: Just such a farmhouse as this stood in a country lane, and in it dwelt an old couple, a peasant and his wife. Small as their possessions were, they had one thing they could not do without, and that was a horse, which contrived to live upon the grass found by the side of the highroad. Question: Why did the old couple decide to sell the horse? Answer: to exchange it or something which might be useful to them
Context: I vowed that I would follow the Green Knight," he replied, "and I will carry out my vow, even if the venture leadeth me close to the nethermost world." He walked through their ranks till he came to the middle of the Circle; and there, seated at a table of red marble, was the Knight whom he had come so far to seek, clad in his grass-green robes. Question: Why didn't Earl Gregory listen to the old and grizzled Goblin's warning? Answer: He made a vow.
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: What happened after the woman found the man in the badger's hole? Answer: She came to him and made him into a wolf.
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: Why did Emperor Keiko love Yamato more than his elder son? Answer: Yamato was special.
Context: So when the latter stepped out, she had to listen to all sorts of abuse from her step-sister, as was to be expected. She was much pleased and ran up at once to pick it; but that very moment it disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away. Question: What did the lily do when it was picked up? Answer: disappeared and reappeared somewhat further away
Context: "And as for the narrow road, all hampered and hindered by the thorns and the briars, there be few that be troubled to ask where that leadeth to. "And, mark'ee, Thomas, if ever thou hopest to see thine own Tower of Ercildoune again, take care of thy tongue when we reach our journey's end, and speak no single word to anyone save me--for the mortal who openeth his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever." Question: Why did Thomas and the Queen of Fairies need to take the third road? Answer: The road lead to Elf-land.
Context: It sha'n't make me blink, though, and I shall keep quite cool and collected.' Instead of eyes he had two large three-cornered pieces of slate in his head; his mouth consisted of an old rake, so that he had teeth as well. Question: Who had two large three-cornered pieces of slate in his head and mouth consisted of an old rake? Answer: the Snow-man
Context: This was the moment for which the brave Prince had been waiting. Takeru, the brigand's brother, was terror-struck as soon as he saw what was happening and tried to escape, but Prince Yamato was too quick for him. Question: How did Takeru feel towards Prince Yamato after he was stabbed? Answer: respect
Context: But his mother, who was still living, objected: "she cannot speak," said she, "and, maybe, she belongs to the troll-folk." When those whom the prince had set to keep guard opened their eyes again, they thought that the queen had devoured her child, and the old queen wanted to have her burned; but the prince loved her so very tenderly, that after much pleading he succeeded in having her saved from punishment, though only with the greatest difficulty. Question: Why did the foster-mother cut the child's little finger? Answer: to exact revenge on the girl
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: What happened because Princess Terute never learned to control her self? Answer: She allowed this wicked thought to grow into the awful desire of taking her step-daughter's life.
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: Why was the poor man known as an "Orro Man"? Answer: He had no special work mapped out for him to do, but he was expected to undertake odd jobs of any kind that happened to turn up.
Context: 'I certainly think that there will not be more than two,' said Jonas, 'there are never more than two when they slay children and rams. 'But, you see, Jonas,' said Walter, 'if there are two, it might still happen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg. Question: Why did Walter still want Jonas to come with him even if there were only two wolves? Answer: Walter was worried one of them might bite his leg.
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: Why was the youngest princess twice as happy now? Answer: She had her child to keep her company in the day when she couldn't see her husband.
Context: Jack my Hedgehog continued to herd his pigs, and they increased in number till there were so many that the forest seemed full of them. Jack my Hedgehog mounted his cock, and driving his pigs before him into the village, he let every one kill as many as they chose, and such a hacking and hewing of pork went on as you might have heard for miles off. Question: What happened after the father got the cock shod? Answer: He rejoiced at the idea of getting rid of his son.
Context: Long before the time of Fu Hi, Dschu Yung, the Magic Welder, was the ruler of men. In the skies the Fiery Star, the southern quarter of the heavens and the Red Bird belong to his domain. Question: What did Fu Hi discover? Answer: the use of fire
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Why did the princess rather never be Tom's wife than to see him in danger? Answer: She did not want Tom to fight the Danes.
Context: But, as he spoke, something cold touched him, and quickly he glanced down at his feet. Already the water had risen to his waist, and he found himself sitting easily upon it, while its surface reflected back the image of a black swan, one of many. Question: What has the youth become? Answer: a swan
Context: The sun would burn us, and the lions and the crocodiles would eat us up. They came to a shore where it was all so cool and familiar and friendly. Old Stina was milking the cows in the farmyard, and there was a very familiar lady in a check woollen shawl on her way to the bleaching green to see if the clothes were bleached. Question: What did Little Lasse want to give to the dream-boy? Answer: some bread-and-butter and a glass of milk
Context: Now every one came out of church, and the old lady stepped into her carriage. She danced round the church corner, for she could not stop; the coachman had to run after her and seize her. Question: Why will Karen leave the shoes in the cupboard? Answer: she still loves them
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: What happened when the King agreed to the voice's condition? Answer: The claws relaxed their hold, and the face disappeared in the depths.
Context: Aggo, relieved of his pursuers, hopped off a hundred steps in one, till he reached the stream, crossed it in a twinkling of the eye, and bore his daughter in triumph to his lodge. In the course of time Aggo's beautiful daughter married a very worthy young warrior, who was neither a buffalo-king nor so much as the owner of any more of the buffalos than a splendid skin robe which he wore, with great effect, thrown over his shoulders, on his wedding-day. Question: Who did Aggo's daughter marry? Answer: a very worthy young warrior
Context: Now one of these young men had a bad and spiteful disposition. But as the wind blew and dried him, his skin became drawn and hardened, and the salt increased the pain so much that he rolled on the sand in his agony and cried aloud. Question: Why did the young man tell the hare to bath his body in the sea? Answer: He had a bad and spiteful disposition.
Context: The gardener left the hamper by the garden gate, so that the carrier could pick it up when he passed. Timmy Willie crept in through a hole in the wicker-work, and after eating some peas-Timmy Willie fell fast asleep. Question: How will Timmy Willie feel when he wakes up? Answer: scared
Context: 'That's a lie,' said Walter, 'I am not at all frightened, but it is more amusing when there are two. Come with me, Jonas, and you shall have the skin, and I will be content with the ears and the tail.' Question: Why didn't Walter want Lisa to come with him? Answer: He was worried she would be frightened.
Context: But within was neither man nor beast; neither boar nor dogs, but only a fountain with marble round it, and on the edge a golden bowl, richly wrought, which pleased Pryderi greatly. There, in the centre of the courtyard, she beheld Pryderi standing, and hastened towards him. Question: What did Rhiannon do after she saw Pryderi? Answer: hastened towards him
Context: Now matters were arranged to suit him, and he was quite content as he turned his face to the wall and closed his eyes. There was one room after another, and wherever he went walls and ceilings were covered with ornaments and decorations of every kind, all glittering so splendidly when the rays of the sun fell on them that he had to put his hand to his eyes; for wherever he looked everything sparkled with gold and silver. Question: Where did the duke find himself when he woke the following morning? Answer: in a great castle
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: What happened after the giant saluted to Fionn and the sons of Ronan? Answer: Fionn returned the salutation and asked the giant whence he came.
Context: You are certainly a most clever sorcerer as well as a considerate compounder," and she held out her hand for the box. "My only fear," replied Dr. Daws, "is that I have made them too strong. Question: Why was the effect of the magic bonbon still powerful enough to control the poor senator? Answer: Dr. Daws made them too strong.
Context: Three brothers were left destitute, by the death of their parents, at an early age. The eldest became expert in the craft of the forest, and he was very successful in procuring food. In this intention he was overruled by his brothers, who said that they could not part with him. When these quivers were prepared, they were straightway filled, with arrows. Question: What animal did each brother kill? Answer: a particular animal which was assigned to him
Context: "When our lords have once been seized with homesickness, then we may
hold them no longer," said they. On the following day they prepared a farewell banquet, gave the
scholars magic wine to take along with them and said:

"We will see one another again. Question: How did the scholars feel when they bade the maidens farewell? Answer: sad
Context: Mike by the Stove thought that things were going from bad to worse, and this was the truth, since the further he went the warmer it grew. When he had come with her to the mill-pond, and had given her water, she came completely out of the lemon. Question: How did Mike by the Stove feel as he traveled? Answer: despaired
Context: And she fetched leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the fawn, and every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for herself, and fresh grass for the fawn, who ate out of her hand with joy, frolicking round her. At night, when the sister was tired, and had said her prayers, she laid her head on the fawn's back, which served her for a pillow, and softly fell asleep. Question: Who held the great hunt in the forest? Answer: the King
Context: Momotaro landed, and with the hope of finding some way of entrance, walked up the path towards the top, followed by the monkey and the dog. We were carried away from our homes to this island, and though we are the daughters of Daimios (Lords), we are obliged to be his servants, and one day he will kill us"--and the maidens held up the blood-stained clothes--"and eat us, and there is no one to help us!" Question: Why were the maidens crying? Answer: They are captives of the Demon King.
Context: As time passed on, the king's daughter had grown to be the most beautiful maiden to be found far and wide. The queen observed this with an angry eye, for it would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters. Question: Why did the queen observe with an angry eye? Answer: It would have pleased her had the prince chosen one of her own daughters.
Context: Long, long ago there lived, an old man and an old woman; they were peasants, and had to work hard to earn their daily rice. The old man used to go and cut grass for the farmers around, and while he was gone the old woman, his wife, did the work of the house and worked in their own little rice field. Question: Why did the old man and old woman have to work hard to earn their daily rice? Answer: They were peasants.
Context: If it was to make his wife contented and happy it was well worth the risk. 'You may as well come out,' said the king, 'and hear what I have to say.' Question: How did the wife feel after she saw the mouse? Answer: startled
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: What was heard outside the window? Answer: the sweetest song they heard
Context: The farmer's trouble and patience was rewarded, for one fine day on going his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug for that purpose. When he reached the house the farmer said to his wife:  "I have at last caught the bad badger. Question: Who did the farmer entrust to watch the badger? Answer: his wife
Context: And now plains of vast extent, and rich in waving grass, began to pass before his eyes. As he pressed on, Bokwewa came in sight of innumerable herds of stately deer, moose, and other animals which walked near his path, and they appeared to have no fear of man. Question: Why was Bokwewa failing in strength? Answer: He lacked food.
Context: There is a lone moor in Scotland, which, in times past, was said to be haunted by an Elfin Knight. And although men might search every inch of the ground, no trace of him would be found, and with a thrill of horror the searching party would go home again, shaking their heads and whispering to one another that he had fallen into the hands of the dreaded Knight. Question: Why was the moor deserted? Answer: Nobody dare pass that way, much less live there.
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: Who were at their sports at a distance? Answer: young nobles
Context: He did think that first he ought to speak to his daughter about it. Then the man went back to the bear again, and they both agreed that the white bear should return again the following Thursday and get his answer. Question: What did the parents do because the daughter did not want to marry the bear? Answer: worked upon their daughter, and talked at length about all the riches they would gain, and how well she herself would fair
Context: Karen was now old enough to be confirmed; she received some new clothes, and she was also to have some new shoes. But the old lady knew nothing of their being red, for she would never have allowed Karen to be confirmed in red shoes, as she was now to be. Question: What color were the shoes Karen picked out? Answer: red
Context: You need not take for granted that a fellow is a vagabond because he goes about in rags. But the youth insisted that it was gospel truth, and took a birch bough, and drove his father to the king's castle-gate. Question: What did the king tell the father to do after hearing his story? Answer: send his son to the king
Context: He at first thought of going to attack the monkey at once, for he burned with rage. Second thoughts, however, told him that this was useless, for the monkey was an old and cunning animal and would be hard to overcome. Question: What did the young crab do because the monkey would be hard to overcome? Answer: asked some of his friends to help him
Context: Now he will have work enough to last him a lifetime," thought the king. The enemy shot at him as hard as they could, but their bullets did not touch him. Question: How did Aspenclog take down the enemy? Answer: stood up, tore out an enormous oak by the roots, and lay about him with it
Context: The brother kept on until he was nearly starved and ready to sink to the earth. The savor was most delicious to the nostrils of the hungry brother, who had not the least suspicion of the sport that was going on at his expense. He ate so keenly, and came and went to the choice dishes so often, that drowsiness at length overpowered him, and he soon fell into a profound sleep. Question: Why did the brother partake heartily of the meal? Answer: He was faint and weary with travel, and he felt that he could endure fasting no longer.
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: Who was the mayfly? Answer: Lugh of the Long Hand
Context: She stretched out her arm to try and get it, but it was quite out of her reach. She looked about for a stick, but there was not one to be seen, and if she went to look for one she would lose the peach. Question: Why was the woman unable to get the peach? Answer: It was quite out of her reach.
Context: The terrified crew lowered the sails and looked after the rudder, and worked for their dear lives' sake, but all in vain-the storm only seemed to increase in violence, and all gave themselves up for lost. Then the faithful Ototachibana rose, and forgetting all the grief that her husband had caused her, forgetting even that he had wearied of her, in the one great desire of her love to save him, she determined to sacrifice her life to rescue him from death if it were possible. Question: Why did Ototachibana want to sacrifice her life? Answer: to rescue the Prince from death if it were possible
Context: So they wagered bushel against bushel as to which one of them could blow the highest note. " Well, if I don't, the horn will burst when I blow it," was Aspenclog's answer. Question: What did Aspenclog do with the fir-tree? Answer: wound it around his horn like a reed
Context: He was really a splendid worker; but a dangerous eater, like a bottomless cask, said the peasant. " He had no more work for him, and the best thing to do would be to go to the king's castle. Question: Why was the castle a good fit for Murmur Goose-Egg? Answer: There was enough to eat and drink in the castle.
Context: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep. And then he knew that the one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years, and he realised how heavy the punishment had been which the Wee Folk had laid upon him. Question: Why didn't the poor man's children recognize him? Answer: They were young when he left.
Context: So they sent to the smith, and he forged a club of two hundred-weights. Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy himself, and forged himself a club of thirty hundred-weights. Question: What was the knapsack made of? Answer: fifteen ox-skins
Context: She even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor. Question: What instrument did Hase-Hime learn? Answer: the koto
Context: The shop was crammed with customers, and there were crowds of mice upon the biscuit canisters. Sally Henny Penny gets rather flustered when she tries to count out change, and she insists on being paid cash; but she is quite harmless. Question: What happened on opening day? Answer: There was a rush.
Context: "Now father has gone, you and I must take care of everything till he comes back," said the mother, as she made her way back to the house. "Yes, I will be very good," said the child, nodding her head, "and when father comes home please tell him how good I have been. Question: What must the girl and her mother do while the father is gone? Answer: take care of everything
Context: There was but little light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and its fitful flashes, by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness, served rather to increase than to dispel her fears. cried a voice from the opposite part of the lodge; "there are two corpses clothed with garments!" Question: What did the mysterious females do when they saw the deer? Answer: ran and pulled off pieces of the whitest fat, which they greedily devoured
Context: "That's all very well, but we are not through yet," said the boy, "there is worse to come," and he told them to reef every last rag, as well as what had been left of the topsails. The last squall hit them with far more force than either of the preceding ones, the ship laid over on her side so that they thought she would not right herself again, and the breaker swept over the deck. Question: What happened when the last squall hit? Answer: The ship laid over on her side so that they thought she would not right herself again, and the breaker swept over the deck.
Context: Now it happened that one Thursday evening late in the fall there was a terrible storm raging outside. It was pitch dark, and it rained and stormed so that the house shook in every joint. Question: Who knocked on the window-pane? Answer: a great white bear
Context: In this way, sometimes by using his wisdom and sometimes by using his bodily strength, and at other times by resorting to craftiness, which was as much esteemed in those days as it is despised in these, he prevailed against all the King's foes one by one, and brought peace and rest to the land and the people. From this time forth the King loved him more than ever and would not let Yamato Take go from his side, for he said that his son was now as precious to him as one of his arms. Question: How did the King feel about Yamato's brave deeds? Answer: proud
Context: He advanced upon them with deep growls and stately tread and with one blow of his monstrous paw stretched the mocker lifeless at his feet. The result was a meeting of all the polar bears upon a broad field of ice, where they talked gravely of the remarkable change that had come upon their monarch. " Question: How will the polar bears feel when they find out that their king has feathers instead of fur? Answer: upset
Context: yes,' said the miller, 'last night the wolves have eaten our fattest ram there by the kiln not far from here.' But, you see, Jonas, it might happen that one of them might bite me in the back, and I should have more trouble in killing them. Question: Why couldn't Walter hunt more than three wolves? Answer: He might not have time to kill them all before they ran away.
Context: Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife, who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. At first the girl told him that so few were left that she could not spare any; but when she found that he belonged to her brother, she changed her mind, and went out to the tree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there. Question: What did the brother's wife do after she ate one pumpkin? Answer: thought of nothing else, and early in the morning she called another slave and bade him go and ask for another pumpkin
Context: Every day the two scholars gazed at the
flowers or played chess so that they forgot the mundane world
completely. They only noticed that at times the peach-blossoms on the
trees before the cave opened, and at others that they fell from the
boughs. Question: What did the scholars do every day after they got married? Answer: gazed at the flowers or played chess so that they forgot the mundane world completely
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: Who will Emperor Keiko send to deal with the rebels? Answer: Prince Yamato
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: How did the man's wife feel when the man told her what the birds were saying? Answer: delighted
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: What was never out of Setanta's mind? Answer: Emain Macha, the capital of the Clanna Rury
Context: But the wily Fox was fond of butter, and he made up his mind that he would have it all to himself. It behoveth us to have foresight, and to lay up in store for the spring, when the grain is all threshed, and the stackyards are bare, and the poultry have gone to market. Question: Why did the Fox want to have the butter all to himself? Answer: The wily Fox was fond of butter.
Context: The gifts of tobacco, after this, came in even more freely than they had at first; and as each brought his bundle to the lodge of Wassamo, he asked for the usual length of life, for success as a hunter, and for a plentiful supply of food. Wassamo told him that it could not be; that only spirits could exert the necessary power, and that there were no such spirits at hand. Question: How did the village ensure that there would be no mistake as to their wants? Answer: Each one who had given tobacco had painted and marked in distinct characters the totem or family emblem of his family and tribe.
Context: After a time the foster-mother wanted to take another journey, and she forbade the girl, above all, to go into the two rooms which, as yet, she had not entered. When the foster-mother returned, and saw the moon had slipped out, she again grieved greatly, and told the girl she could keep her no longer, and that now she must go. Question: What happened because the girl cried bitterly and pleaded with grace? Answer: She was once more allowed to remain.
Context: They promised to do their best, and the fox continued, 'The wolf has declared war against me, and is at this moment marching to meet me in company with the bear and the wild boar. 'All right,' said the dog and the cat, 'we will stand by you, and if we are killed, it is at any rate better to die on the field of battle than to perish ignobly at home,' and they shook paws and concluded the bargain. Question: What has been going on between the wolf and the fox? Answer: The wolf has declared war against the fox.
Context: But the sister was very terrified when she saw that her fawn was wounded. But the King looked kindly on her, took her by the hand, and said,  "Will you go with me to my castle, and be my dear wife?" Then the fawn came bounding in, and the sister tied the cord of rushes to him, and led him by her own hand out of the little house. Question: Why did the King go to the little house? Answer: to ask for the maiden's hand in marriage
Context: When she came into the church-yard, it seemed to her as though she were surrounded by a great crowd of people. She was wearing one of these mantles and the specters seized it. Question: What was the woman wearing? Answer: a broad mantle of unbleached wool, woven at home, and white in color
Context: "That's all very fine," declared the king, "just come in and we'll talk it over," said he, for he had noticed that the youth knew a thing or two, and he was thinking over how he might get rid of him. Then he at once wished to be the handsomest man in the world, and so he was, that very minute. Question: What happened because the king, queen, and princess realized the youth was more than he had at first appeared to be? Answer: They decided that the princess was to treat him nicely, in order to find out how matters really stood.
Context: "That's all very fine," thought the youth--he said nothing, but he thought it would be better, after all, to drive to his home, instead of down into the hideous rat-hole. And at once a fine coach with six horses was sent for the youth's mother, and when she came the wedding festivities began. Question: Where did the princess actually live? Answer: a beautiful castle
Context: In the farm-house lived two young students; the one was a poet and the other a scientific searcher into the secrets of nature. He looked upon God's creation as a great sum in arithmetic--subtracted, multiplied, and tried to know it within and without, and to talk with understanding concerning it; and that was a very sensible thing; and he spoke joyously and cleverly of it. Question: How did the poet sing of God's creation? Answer: clearly, sweetly, richly in well-sounding verses
Context: "And you, mother, have you no thought of taking your child to the Capital, and of teaching him to carry a sword as befits a samurai (a Japanese knight)?" I have often wished that I could, one day, see my boy a knight wearing two swords. Question: What did Kintaro's mother do because of Kintaro's strength? Answer: hid him away in this unknown part of the country
Context: After the first yard or two they were enveloped in thick darkness. At last they found themselves in an enormous cavern lit by flaming torches, which were stuck here and there in sconces in the rocky walls. Question: Where did Canonbie Dick and the stranger find themselves after they were enveloped in thick darkness? Answer: an enormous cavern lit by flaming torches
Context: Now, the dog and the monkey and the pheasant had come very bravely all the way through the long valleys and over the hills, but they had never seen the sea before, and for the first time since they set out they were bewildered and gazed at each other in silence. How were they to cross the water and get to the Island of Devils? Question: Why were the animals bewildered? Answer: They had never seen the sea before.
Context: So trouble and anger wrought in the witch woman, and she waited the day to be revenged on Murtough, for he being yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm. So when Sheen (for Sheen or "Storm" was the name men gave to her) saw the King seated on the fairy mound and all his comrades parted from him, she arose softly, and combed her hair with her comb of silver adorned with little ribs of gold, and she washed her hands in a silver basin wherein were four golden birds sitting on the rim of the bowl, and little bright gems of carbuncle set round about the rim. Question: How will the witch feel about what would happen to the fairy folk? Answer: angry
Context: Now when they had already covered a good bit of the homeward road, they passed close to a steep cliff-side where the giants dwelt. No, that I will not allow under any circumstances," answered the father, "otherwise you will be lost to me into the bargain." Question: Why did the king keep on living? Answer: He still had his youngest son.
Context: WHEN she came out, the sandy whiskered gentleman was sitting on a log reading the newspaper--at least he had it spread out, but he was looking over the top of it. JEMIMA PUDDLE-DUCK came every afternoon; she laid nine eggs in the nest. I will provide lard for the stuff-lard for the omelette," said the hospitable gentleman with sandy whiskers. Question: What did the  gentleman promise to Jemina? Answer: He promised to take great of her nest until she came back again next day.
Context: There he stood on the cold landing, with the autumn wind blowing down upon him through the trapdoor. Then how he shivered and crept downstairs again to his warm corner, where he felt at home and comfortable! Question: Why did the goblin go back down to his warm corner? Answer: because he was cold
Context: All else that he learned in the abodes of the dead, and his travels and acts previous to his return homeward, are unknown, for he never spoke of them to any human being. Passing all the other lodges he came to his own door, where he found the magic arrow, as he had been promised. Question: What did Maidwa hear the brothers fight over? Answer: the possession of Maidwa's wife
Context: "Now that you have provided me with food and a castle in which to dwell, I am going to stay here, because it suits me," said he, "but I cannot live here all alone in this fashion. Servants and lackeys and maids and serving-women of every description arrived, and some of them bowed and others courtseyed, and now the duke really began to feel content. Question: Why did the duke ask for serving-men and serving-maids? Answer: He could not live there all alone.
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: What happened after the two birds flew aloft? Answer: The good old man was dead.
Context: 'If you must, you must,' said he; 'there, take your own way'; and he opened his claw, and, faith, he was right--sure enough, I came down plump into the very bottom of the salt sea! Down to the very bottom I went, and I gave myself up, then, for ever, when a whale walked up to me, scratching himself after his night's sleep, and looked me full in the face, and never the word did he say, but, lifting up his tail, he splashed me all over again with the cold salt water till there wasn't a dry stitch upon my whole carcass! Question: How did Judy wake Daniel up? Answer: with a tub full of water, she splashed all over him
Context: "Dear, good pancake, don't roll so fast, wait a little and I will eat you up!" "Mother Gray and grandpa I've left behind, and the seven squallers, too, you'll find, and Man Tan, so I think I can leave you as well, Hen Glen!" Question: Who did the pancake meet after it rolled away from hen? Answer: a rooster
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: Why couldn't the King lift his head? Answer: Someone held his beard fast in the water.
Context: It happened that when the king had opened the door behind him, Moti noticed that there was a garden outside: without waiting for the king's return he began to think what could be got out of the garden small enough to be shut in the box. ' And a fruit without much scent, or else he would be afraid that I might smell it. Question: What fruit did Moti guess was in the box? Answer: a pomegranate
Context: He thought he would ponder deeply how he could employ that to the best advantage. It happened that while he was doing so, one evening, as Owasso and his wife were sitting on the banks of the lake, and the soft breeze swept over it, they heard a song, as if sung by some one at a great distance. Question: What did Owasso's wife do to soothe her father to sleep? Answer: combed his hair
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. He had gone hunting one day, had lost his way, and could not find his people. Now it chanced one day, as the king's daughter was sitting alone in her room, that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared. But the queen had the last word in the end, and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess, even though it be against her will. By then the king's daughter was very thirsty, and wanted to go into the little hut with her step-sister, in order to get a drink of water. Question: How did the queen treat the princess after the king left? Answer: poorly
Context: "Father, I will be very good while I am waiting for you to come back, so please bring me a present." His wife, catching up the child in her arms, ran as far as the gate, and watched him as he went down the road between the pines till he was lost in the haze of the distance and all she could see was his quaint peaked hat, and at last that vanished too. Question: Why was it so difficult for the father to leave? Answer: They had never been separated before.
Context: She complained bitterly to him, and said she would never have thought it possible that the weather could affect one so. How he had managed to get it, neither she nor the troll could guess. Question: What did the princess think was the reason for her thrashing? Answer: the weather
Context: "Oh, I wouldn't mind," said the lamb again; "I shall grow more wool by winter-time, and I'm sure I don't look any worse than you do." Some of the sheep looked at the ram and began to giggle, for he was old and thin, and looked very comical indeed without any wool. Question: Why did the ram stop speaking to the others? Answer: Some of the sheep began to giggle and this made him so angry.
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: What did the monster do when the wife offered various meats? Answer: pushed them away in disgust
Context: "I am quite as rich as the oats," it said; "and, moreover, I am much more sightly. The willow nodded his head, as much as to say, "Indeed I do!" Question: What does the narrator ask the willow? Answer: do you know anything more beautiful than we?
Context: THERE was once a proud teapot; it was proud of being porcelain, proud of its long spout, proud of its broad handle. But it did not talk of its lid, which was cracked and riveted; these were defects, and one does not talk of one's defects, for there are plenty of others to do that. Question: why didn't the teapot talk about its lid? Answer: because it was cracked and riveted
Context: Far Rua, seeing what he had seen, was of the same opinion himself; his knees knocked together with the terror of Finn's return, and he accordingly hastened in to bid Oonagh farewell, and to assure her that, from that day out, he never wished to hear of, much less to see, her husband. " I admit fairly that I'm not a match for him," said he, "strong as I am. Finn, in the meantime, had gone into the cradle, where he lay very quietly, his heart in his mouth with delight that Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him. Question: Why was Finn delighted? Answer: Far Rua was about to take his departure without discovering the tricks that been played off on him.
Context: When the peasant set out for home, he reached the same tavern at which he had already put up in the evening, so he turned in and decided to stay over night. But during the night, while he was asleep, the old woman came and stole his mill and put another in its place. Question: Why did the old woman steal his mill? Answer: She wanted the mill for herself.
Context: "We have orders," said they, "and we cannot return without trying the shoe on everyone, poor and rich, so stretch out your foot." And as I have it (i.e., the story) to-night, that ye may not have it to-morrow night, or if ye have it itself, that ye may only lose the back teeth by it! Question: What did the lad do before he went with the soldiers? Answer: He went to the caher of the giants, and he got a fine new suit on him.
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. I was out with him in the garden every day, and the King was as proud as the world of the child. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." Question: Where did the wolf go to search for the child? Answer: the house
Context: At last he came to a tiny box, and in the tiny box was a slip of paper--and that was all he had for his pains! But all at once, he saw that something was written on the piece of paper, and on closer examination he was even able to spell out the words, though they had a strange appearance. Question: What did the duke do when he saw the words on the paper? Answer: read the words outloud
Context: At length the next day he was seen coming across the valley, and Oonagh knew that it was time to commence operations. This, to be sure, was wormwood to Finn--I mean going into the cradle in such a cowardly manner--but he knew Oonagh very well; and finding that he had nothing else for it, with a very rueful face he gathered himself into it and lay snug, as she had desired him. "I am," says she, "and I have no reason, I hope, to be ashamed of my husband." Question: Why was Finn not at home? Answer: He set out there to try if he could catch Far Rua.
Context: So the girl related all her history, and what had happened to her, and when the mother heard how she came to have such great riches she began to wish that her ugly and idle daughter might have the same good fortune. So she sent her to sit by the well and spin; and in order to make her spindle bloody she put her hand into the thorn hedge. So that Mother Hulda soon grew tired of her, and gave her warning, at which the lazy thing was well pleased, and thought that now the shower of gold was coming; so Mother Hulda led her to the door, and as she stood in the doorway, instead of the shower of gold a great kettle full of pitch was emptied over her. Question: Why didn't the ugly daughter shake the apple tree? Answer: she didn't want the apples to fall on her head
Context: This curious instrument was invented by Kotei, one of the three Chinese Emperors of the Mythological age. As she looked at the North Star, strange to relate, it shot forth vivid flashes of lightning in every direction. Question: What happened before Kotei was born? Answer: His mother had a vision which foretold that her son would be a great man.
Context: As he went along he saw branches broken off and strewed behind, which guided him in his course; for these had been purposely cast along by the daughter. She immediately caught his eye, and knowing that it was her father come for her, she all at once appeared to relent in her heart, and, asking for the royal dipper, said to the king, "I will go and get you a drink of water." Question: How did Aggo's daughter guide her father to find her? Answer: She purposely had branches broken off and strewed behind.
Context: In the first days of her illness the father and daughter thought that it was only a cold, and were not particularly anxious. But the days went by and still the mother did not get better. The father and daughter were stricken with grief, and day or night the girl never left her mother's side. Question: What happened because the wife got sick? Answer: The girl never left her mother's side.
Context: The next morning a boy knocked at the door, bidding him attend the burial of the man who was dead. 'They are,' said she, 'and make haste lest the burying be ended before you get there.' Question: Why did the third wife stop her husband from going to the funeral on time? Answer: She wanted to rush him to go to the funeral.
Context: They rode far without meeting any adventures, but at length they came to an ant-hill, and the horse stopped. By-and-by they entered a rocky pass between two mountains, and here they saw an eagle which had been caught in a hunter's net. 'Never mind that; do not lose a chance of helping others,' answered the horse. However, he bowed low, and went out to consult his friend the horse. He did not much believe in the horse's plan; but he could not think of anything better, so he called to the ants, and bade them collect the bran as fast as they could. Question: How will Jose get the handkerchief and ring back? Answer: call to the eagle
Context: Perhaps you think that fishes were always fishes, and never lived anywhere except in the water, but if you went to Australia and talked to the black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country, you would learn something quite different. Indeed, so clever were they that they might have been hunting still if a terrible thing had not happened. ' Then in an instant they felt warm again, for the fire, driven by the strong wind, had followed them right down to the bottom of the pool, where it burned as brightly as ever. Question: Why didn't the fishes hunt on land anymore? Answer: There was a fire on the land.
Context: The third day the prince went by, and stopped to talk with the strange woman. He said that he often did, but that during the last two nights he was listening to a sweet song in his dreams, and could not wake, and that the voice was one that he must have known and loved in some other world long ago. Question: What did the prince do after he stopped to talk to the youngest princess? Answer: asked her could he do anything to serve her
Context: All would have gone well if Farquhar had only looked where he was going. His companions sped merrily on, not noticing what had befallen him. Question: Why did Farquhar's friends sped on merrily? Answer: They did not notive he struck aainst the chimney.
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a little girl called Lucie, who lived at a farm called Little-town. THE Kitten went on washing her white paws; so Lucie asked a speckled hen--  "Sally Henny-penny, has YOU found three pocket-handkins?" Question: How does the story describe Lucie? Answer: She was a good little girl - only she was always losing her pocket-handkerchiefs.
Context: The next day--well, perhaps we had better pass over the next day. The evening had come, and the lamp was resting in a grandfather's chair; and guess where! Question: Why did the watchman look upon the lamp as his child? Answer: because he had no children
Context: "No," said the youth, he always had something to think about. "No," said the youth, "I am used to serving myself, so I have no need of a servant. Question: Why did the youth not find it tiresome to wander alone? Answer: He always had something to think about.
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. The touch of his hands appeared to work like magic, for no sooner had he finished than the wound seemed to deaden and die, leaving only the scar. Question: How did the seals feel after the old seal was healed? Answer: happy
Context: With this he wandered out into the crab settlement and crept about as slyly as possible near the crab's house and tried to hear the neighbors' gossip round about. By this means he could the better keep secret the revenge on the monkey, which he was meditating. Question: What happened because the young crab pretended to not know who killed his father? Answer: The monkey thought he had gotten away with it.
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: Why did Duivsech seek her own soul-friend? Answer: She might obtain help and shelter from him.
Context: In a moment the Princess Hyacinthia had changed herself, the Prince, and his charger into a thick wood where a thousand paths and roads crossed each other. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: Why did Hyacinthia say she and the Prince were lost now? Answer: Her father was pursuing them.
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: What did the stranger do when he met the seal catcher? Answer: asked him his trade
Context: Bowing her head to the ground, she replied:  "I will then entrust my son to you if you really mean what you say." Kintaro had all this time been sitting by his mother's side listening to what they said. Question: How did Kintaro feel upon hearing his mother finish speaking? Answer: joy
Context: When they reached home, and the maiden had gone to bed, all went as usual: a man came in and cast himself down in a corner of the room. But in the night, when she heard him sleeping soundly, she stood up and lighted the candle. Question: How did the maiden feel when she saw the handsome prince? Answer: excited
Context: But what were deadly poisons in other lands were without effect in this strange place. This was because after using it for a hundred years, it was supposed to turn the hair slightly gray and to bring about disorders of the stomach. Question: Why was the drug in the chemist shop in constant demand? Answer: It was supposed to turn hair slightly gray and bring about disorders of the stomach.
Context: The pie proved extremely toothsome, and the muffins light and hot. "Oh, I didn't put one in, my dear Duchess," said Ribby; "I don't think that it is necessary in pies made of mouse." Question: What was happening to the pie-dish? Answer: It was emptying rapidly.
Context: The dog answered jealously:  "Momotaro already has a dog to accompany him. The dog and the monkey began to quarrel and bite, for these two animals always hate each other. Question: Why did the dog and monkey quarrel? Answer: These two animals always hate each other.
Context: But the Fairy Queen suddenly tightened her rein, and the grey palfrey stopped short in its wild career. For he saw three roads leading across it now, which he had not noticed before, and each of these three roads was different. Question: What did the Queen of Fairies order Thomas to do after they stopped at the desert? Answer: bend down and lay his head on her knee
Context: thought Prince Milan, 'you might as well have put me to death at once.' Milan opened the window quickly, and as soon as the bee had entered, it changed into the beautiful Hyacinthia. Question: Why did the Prince say he would rather be put to death than to fulfill the first task? Answer: He thought it was impossible to complete.
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: Why did Kintoki choose to live in the Ashigara mountains to hide from her husband's enemies? Answer: No one would look for her there.
Context: But within was neither man nor beast; neither boar nor dogs, but only a fountain with marble round it, and on the edge a golden bowl, richly wrought, which pleased Pryderi greatly. There, in the centre of the courtyard, she beheld Pryderi standing, and hastened towards him. Question: How did Pryderi feel after he was trapped? Answer: scared
Context: It was late in autumn and all the trees had shed their leaves, but no sooner did the ashes touch their branches than the cherry trees, the plum trees, and all other blossoming shrubs burst into bloom. The old man's garden was suddenly transformed into a beautiful picture of spring. Question: Why did the trees shed their leaves? Answer: It was late in autumn.
Context: A great rage took possession of his soul as he thought of the girl whom he had tried to ruin being after all so much better off than himself, and he vowed that he would work her ill. When he was admitted to his presence, he knelt down and touched the ground with his forehead, and the king bade him stand up and tell wherefore he had come. Question: How did the brother feel after he knew his sister got married to the prince? Answer: jealous
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. But the queen laughed at her grief, and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished. Question: How did the queen turn the prince into a werewolf? Answer: black arts
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: How had the couple felt about having no child? Answer: sad
Context: The next morning the giant got up very early, and went into the forest. And she picked the loveliest flowers she could find and strewed them over the threshold which they had put to rights again and when the time drew near for the giant's return, the king's son crept under the bed once more. Question: What happened because the king's daughter and the prince could not find the giant's heart? Answer: They went back to the house.
Context: Tom Kitten was quite unable to jump when walking upon his hind legs in trousers. Moppet and Mittens tried to pull him together; his hat fell off, and the rest of his buttons burst. Question: What were the kittens trying to do when the Puddle-ducks walked over? Answer: pull Tom Kitten together
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: How will the young nobles feel when Setanta interrupt their sports? Answer: annoyed
Context: Three brothers were left destitute, by the death of their parents, at an early age. The eldest became expert in the craft of the forest, and he was very successful in procuring food. Question: How were three brothers left destitute? Answer: by the death of their parents
Context: With a toss of the head, like that of an angry female, Strong Desire left the lodge, followed by Red Head, and walked away until he came to the beach of the island, near the spot where they had first landed. Strong Desire now changed his manner, was very kind and soothing, and suggested in the most winning accent that if Red Head would sleep soundly for awhile he might possibly dream himself out of all his troubles. Question: How will Red Head be able to focus on massacre after marrying Strong Desire? Answer: no longer worry about marriage
Context: THE brother took his sister's hand and said to her,  "Since our mother died we have had no good days; our stepmother beats us every day, and if we go near her she kicks us away; we have nothing to eat but hard crusts of bread left over; the dog under the table fares better; he gets a good piece every now and then. So they went, and journeyed the whole day through fields and meadows and stony places, and if it rained the sister said,  "The skies and we are weeping together." Question: Why did the two decide to leave? Answer: Their stepmother was mean to them.
Context: Once upon a time there was a peasant boy, who dreamed that he would get a princess, from far, far away, that she was as white as milk, and as red as blood, and so rich that her riches had no end. This surprised the youth, and when the pastor came out of the church, he asked him what it meant. " Question: How did the whole congregation feel about the dead man? Answer: disgust
Context: O do not do that," said the rat, "you shall have the ring again!" When the folk at the castle had gone to bed, the rat crept around, and sniffed and spied out the room of the prince and princess; and at last he found a little hole through which he crawled. Question: Where did the rat go after crossing paths with the cat? Answer: the castle
Context: In a church-nave a specter sat night by night, and the specter's name was Torre Jeppe. One night three tailors were working at a farmstead in the neighborhood. Question: What did the girl want for her trouble? Answer: a dress of home-spun wool
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: What did the bride want to do a few months after she got married? Answer: wanted to go into the city and buy herself some new dresses
Context: There were bees standing in all the passages, waving their wings, so that a wholesome draught of air might blow through the great manufactory. It was not yet the time for that, but still she wanted to fly out. Question: What did the bees do? Answer: They brought flower-dust which was poured out, sorted, and manufactured into honey and wax.
Context: After this the foster-mother wished to take another journey, and she told the girl, who was now more than half-grown, that she must take her request not to go, or even so much as peep into the third room, seriously to heart. It is true, that at first she thought she would not do it, because of her foster-mother; yet when the thought returned to her, she could not hold back, after all; but decided that she should and must by all means take a peep. Question: What must the girl do? Answer: leave this place
Context: She at length became so engrossed by the fairy pines that her parents began to suspect that some evil spirit had enticed her to its haunts, and had cast upon her a charm which she had not the power to resist. lead my foot-prints to the blushing mis-kodeed, or where the burning passion-flower shines with carmine hue. Again, in the evening, when the young people formed a ring around the lodge, and the piepeend-jigun, or leather and bone, passed rapidly from one to the other, she either handed it along without attempting to play, or if she took a part, it was with no effort to succeed. Question: How did Leelinau's behavior change the more she visited the fairy wood? Answer: more sad
Context: Now when the giant had been sleeping quite a while, he began to stretch himself on his bench. " But he could not see who had called him, and so he called out to the Master Girl. Question: What did the giant realize had come to pass when he saw a light? Answer: The Master Girl and king's son had run away.
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Why was the wolf roaring? Answer: He was ready to drop out of his standing from fair tiresomeness.
Context: The spring passed, and it was the eve of St. John, or Midsummer Day. Oh, we will take care of her,' cried the girls gaily, and they ran off to the woods. Question: What did the girls do when Marie asked them to be careful of Snowflake? Answer: said they would take care of her and ran off into the woods
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: Why did Moti follow the two Afghan horsedealers? Answer: He wanted his money back.
Context: When the king's daughter and her maid saw the old woman, who was sitting beneath the window, they felt a great longing to try the beautiful apples. The princess and her maid, in all innocence, did as the troll-woman told them, and each received an apple. Question: What did the old woman tell the girls to do in exchange for an apple? Answer: let down a little basket from the tower
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: What did the prince do when he saw the lovely maiden? Answer: coaxed her down, took her back home with him
Context: He then approached the charcoal fire-place and began to pour out some hot water from the kettle boiling there, when something burst out from the ashes with a great pop and hit the monkey right in the neck. The monkey, taken by surprise, jumped backward, and then started to run out of the room. Question: What did the bee do? Answer: flew out and stung him on the cheek
Context: Joyfully Dung followed him, and the inn-keeper waited on him with the greatest consideration, and saw that he had great plenty to eat and to drink. Without having opened the door, he stood by Dung's bedside, gave him his hand, and asked how things had gone with him since he had last seen him. Question: What did the spirit say when Dung asked what had happened to Sir Wang? Answer: His sentence had already been spoken.
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: How will the Abbot feel praying? Answer: peaceful
Context: So he looked at me in the face, and says he to me, 'Daniel O'Rourke,' says he, 'how do you do?' ' Very well, I thank you, sir,' says I; 'I hope you're well'; wondering out of my senses all the time how an eagle came to speak like a Christian. ' Question: What did Daniel wish? Answer: He was safe home again.
Context: One day the hunter had gone abroad with his bow and arrows, leaving, at the request of the strange boy, one of the two shafts which the friendly Weendigo had given to him, behind in the lodge. When he returned, what were his surprise and joy to see stretched dead by his lodge-door, the black giant who had slain his wife. Question: What did the strange boy request from the hunter? Answer: one of the two shafts which the friendly Weendigo had given to him
Context: said Conn. "Surely thou art the son of some great king or champion, for heroic feats like thine are not performed by the sons of inconsiderable and unknown men." Then his brothers and his sons, and the sons of his brothers, did so in succession, and after that all the chief men of the Fians did the same, and that night Finn was solemnly and surely installed in the Fian leadership of Erin, and put in possession of all the woods and forests and waste places, and all the hills and mountains and promontories, and all the streams and rivers of Erin, and the harbours and estuaries and the harbour-dues of the merchants, and all ships and boats and galleys with their mariners, and all that pertained of old time to the Fian leadership of Fail. Question: Who was Finn? Answer: the son of Cool, the son of Trenmor, the son of Basna
Context: As it was a hot summer's day, the rebel was nothing loath to take a plunge in the river, while his enemy was still swimming down the stream the Prince turned back and landed with all possible haste. As soon as he had landed and donned his clothes, the Prince came forward and asked him to cross swords with him to prove his skill, saying:  "Let us two prove which is the better swordsman of the two!" Question: How will the wood sword help Yamato kill Takeru? Answer: Takeru will be unable to fight with a wooden sword.
Context: His father had a friend, and this friend held an official position in the South and offered the young man a place as secretary. So he was glad to take refuge in the Monastery of Puto, where he copied holy books for the abbot. Question: Where did the young man take refuge? Answer: the Monastery of Puto
Context: So they released the wine-dealer from his block of ice, and laid him in consecrated ground. But when the youth had paid for the wake, he had but a few shillings left in his pocket. Question: What did the man do after he came up behind the youth? Answer: asked him whether he did not find it tiresome to wander along all alone
Context: After this the foster-mother wished to take another journey, and she told the girl, who was now more than half-grown, that she must take her request not to go, or even so much as peep into the third room, seriously to heart. It is true, that at first she thought she would not do it, because of her foster-mother; yet when the thought returned to her, she could not hold back, after all; but decided that she should and must by all means take a peep. Question: What choice did the daughter pick? Answer: becoming the most beautiful of all maidens, without the power of speech
Context: The mother stork sat in it with her four little ones, who were stretching out their heads with their pointed black bills that had not yet turned red. That he might not appear quite idle while standing sentry, he had drawn one leg up under him, as is the manner of storks. Question: which house was the stork's nest on? Answer: the last house in the village
Context: When he got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in his feet, so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him. He now hastened to the temples of Ise, where you will remember that he prayed before undertaking this long expedition. Question: What happened because the serpent poisoned Yamato? Answer: He began to feel ill and have burning pains in his feet.
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: Why did the wife think it was absurd for her husband to decline her request? Answer: The gift was worth nothing.
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' But though I can't take money,' says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.' Question: What did Saint Kavin say he could take instead of money? Answer: a few acres of land
Context: His wife, the Princess Ototachibana, had accompanied him, and he bade her bring him the robe his aunt the priestess of Ise had given him, and to help him attire himself as a woman. Ototachibana then brought him her comb, which he put in his black tresses, and then adorned himself with strings of strange jewels. Question: What did Yamato do to look like a woman? Answer: put on the robe
Context: She opened her arms, and could neither ask questions nor reply to them, so moved and delighted was she. The prince told how he had been turned into a wolf, and of all he had suffered while running about in the forest; and the princess told of her grief, and the many tears she had shed while he had been gone. Then the old man said: "He is a messenger sent on ahead by the king your father. Question: How did the princess feel about being reunited with the prince? Answer: excited
Context: Little Miss Muffet's father was a big banker in a big city, and he had so much money that the house he lived in was almost as beautiful as a king's palace. She had a maid to dress her hair and a maid to bathe her, a maid to serve her at table and a maid to tie her shoestrings, and several maids beside. Question: What was Nurse Holloweg's job? Answer: look after all the maids and see they did their tasks properly
Context: The maiden then mounted the horse, and again rode a long, long time. But I will loan you my horse, and you may ride on it to the East Wind and ask him. Question: What was different about the third old woman compared to the first two? Answer: She had a golden spindle.
Context: When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. The maiden asked the woman whether she did not know which road led to the prince who lived in the castle that was east of the sun and west of the moon, and who was to marry a princess with a nose three yards long. At length she again came to a hill, before which sat an old woman with a golden reel. But I will loan you my horse to ride to the nearest neighbor. And when you reach him, just give my horse a blow back of the left ear, and then he will return here of his own accord." Question: What did the old women all not know? Answer: the road which led to the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon
Context: He pushed it in front of him with his paws, like a brewer's man trundling a barrel. But his mouth was full of soot and cob-webs, and he was tied up in such very tight knots, he could not make anybody hear him. Question: What did Anna Maria do at the kitchen? Answer: She borrowed a small saucer, and scoope up the dough with her paws.
Context: He sat there with her all day long, for they had soon agreed that they would marry, he and the king's daughter, and in this way his first day in the giant's service did not weary him at all. When he got there he thought he would try out her advice, and began to use the shovel as he had seen his father's grooms use it. Question: Why did the giant think the king's son had spoken to the Master Girl? Answer: The king's son could not have cleaned the stable alone.
Context: One day the old man went to the hills as usual to cut grass and the old woman took some clothes to the river to wash. It was nearly summer, and the country was very beautiful to see in its fresh greenness as the two old people went on their way to work. Question: Where did the man cut grass? Answer: the hills
Context: When they had traveled for some time they reached a cross-road. "I will give you a token by which you may tell," said Silverwhite, "so long as the water runs clear in this spring you will know that I am alive. Question: What did Lillwacker do every morning? Answer: went to the spring to see how his brother fared
Context: He at once made ready to start, and great was the stir in the precincts of the Palace as he and his trusty followers gathered together and prepared for the expedition, and polished up their armor and donned it. Before he left his father's Court he went to pray at the shrine of Ise and to take leave of his aunt the Princess Yamato, for his heart was somewhat heavy at the thought of the dangers he had to face, and he felt that he needed the protection of his ancestress, Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess. Question: Why was there a great stir in the precincts of the Palace? Answer: He and his trusty followers gathered together and prepared for the expedition.
Context: Now, when Farquhar had been in his mortal state, he had been very fond of children. For scarce had the Holy Name crossed his lips than the spell which had held him so long was broken. Question: Why did Farquhar made haste to go home? Answer: He felt sure that some weeks must have elapsed since he set out to fetch it.
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Who did the wolf keep his eyes on? Answer: Redhead
Context: Then Gopani-Kufa calmed himself, and drew out Zengi-mizi from its rush basket. hummed the wasp, 'there is nothing now that can be done, for the words of the antelope which you slew are being fulfilled.' Question: Why was the mirror stolen at the first place? Answer: because the antelope's words were true
Context: When the girl came back to the church Torre Jeppe asked eagerly: "What did she say?" " The girl went back at sunrise, and in the place where the phantom had been sitting she found a bushel of silver coin. Question: What did the girl find where the phantom had been sitting? Answer: a bushel of silver coin
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: Who did the stepmother send with the son? Answer: her own daughter
Context: and the girl answered, between her sobs:  'When I came in and saw the pack-saddle over my head, I thought how dreadful it would be if it fell and killed me.' The old woman struck her hands together: 'Ah, to think of it! Question: What did the young woman and mother do together in the stable? Answer: wrung their hands and let their tears flow
Context: The
grand-children, who were away, busy with their duties, all asked for
leave and returned home when they heard that their ancestor had
returned. The scholar himself still looked like a youth of twenty years, so that
all the young people in the circle looked around and laughed. Question: Who had white-haired, wrinkled old lady? Answer: the scholar's wife
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Why did Setanta see his father little? Answer: His father's mind had become impaired.
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: Why did the ram say the division was unfair? Answer: He had been altogether forgotten.
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. No sooner had he started than the girl's brother, who had wasted all the riches his wife had brought him in recklessness and folly, and was now very poor, chanced to come into the town, and as he passed he heard a man say, 'Do you know that the king's son has married a woman who has lost one of her hands?' Question: Why didn't the prince know what happened to his wife? Answer: He was on a journey.
Context: The Emperor ordered Jofuku to set out for the land of Horaizan, to find the hermits, and to bring him back a phial of the magic elixir. But ever since that time Mount Fuji has been said to be the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermits who had the secret of the elixir. Question: Where has been said to be the fabled Horaizan and home of hermits? Answer: Mount Fuji
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. After this he lived for many a long year in his Castle of Ercildoune, and the fame of his poetry and of his prophecies spread all over the country, so that people named him True Thomas, and Thomas the Rhymer. Question: Why was Thomas famous for his poetry and his prophecies? Answer: The Queen gave him powers.
Context: On entering the village, he found that his parents had returned from the place of their spring encampment by the wood-side, and that they were in heavy sorrowing for their son, whom they supposed to be lost. One and another of the young men had presented themselves to the disconsolate parents, and said, "Look up, I am your son;" but when they looked up, they beheld not the familiar face of Strong Desire. Question: What did Strong Desire find his parents doing? Answer: The parents were in heavy sorrowing for their son, whom they supposed to be lost.
Context: This the king did not wish done at all; but the princess tormented him so that finally he yielded in this as well. They were all of the same mind, but when they had carried the wood a while, it grew terribly heavy. Question: What did the wood from the linden-tree turn into? Answer: pure silver
Context: He did not sleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow. The mother ran out from the kitchen to the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch. Question: How did the wife feel when she saw her child disappear? Answer: scared
Context: In the sand, as he drew closer to the land, he saw the tracks as of that animal fleeing away; and besides these the prints of human hands. He leaped upon a bank, and looking back, and casting upon Owasso a glance of deep reproach and grief, he exclaimed, "I am a wolf!" Question: What did Owasso do when he saw Sheem? Answer: strove to catch Sheem
Context: The knights and ladies rested that night at the old man's hermitage, and next day they set out for the Court. Jack then went up to the King, and gave his Majesty an account of all his fierce battles. Question: What happened when Jack's fame spread through the whole country? Answer: He married the duke's daughter and lived in joy and contentment.
Context: One day he stepped forth from his tent and after walking about for a short time he came to a pond. He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat. Question: What happened because Kotei watched the spider? Answer: He invented the first boat.
Context: Maidwa was borne gently along but a little way above their heads; and as they followed him, the rush and hum of the people was like the dead beating of the surges upon a lake shore after a storm. In a moment Maidwa came past with rustling wings, and as he flew by, giving the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp, his limbs extended and quivered in an agony, the scalp adhered, and Maidwa, in his own person, walked into the lodge and sat down, feeling perfectly at home. Question: What did Maidwa do when he saw the magician? Answer: gave the magician a severe blow on the head with the wampum scalp
Context: This was a very rude speech, especially against the cask, but the huckster and the student both laughed, for it was only said in fun. As soon as it was night, the shop closed, and every one in bed except the student, the goblin stepped softly into the bedroom where the huckster's wife slept, and took away her tongue, which of course she did not then want. Question: How did the goblin feel about what the student told the huckster? Answer: very angry
Context: But just at that moment somebody knocked at the front door, and Moppet jumped into the flour barrel in a fright. Mittens ran away to the dairy, and hid in an empty jar on the stone shelf where the milk pans stand. Question: Who knocked at the front door? Answer: Mrs. Ribby
Context: There were rows upon rows of fine beasts with their names written in gold above their stalls, and Jose was looking uncertainly from one to the other, wondering which he should choose, when an old white horse turned its head and signed to him to approach. Jose still felt so bewildered with the mission that the king had given him that he forgot to be astonished at hearing a horse talk. Question: Why did Jose forget to be astonished at hearing a horse talk? Answer: He still felt so bewildered with the mission the king had given him.
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: Why did Sylvia pity Iris? Answer: Iris was unhappy.
Context: But the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter. So she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way, and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them, and when he had done so he set forth. He took a roundabout way, the longest he could find, for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling, and the talk about marriage. Question: What did the youth do differently after setting forth this time compared to the previous times? Answer: took a roundabout way, the longest he could fine
Context: Soon after sunrise next day the prince's wife was standing on a little hill behind the house, when she saw a cloud of dust coming through the town. In any case they must not discover her there; so just bidding the ring prepare some food for them, she ran inside, and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face. Question: What did the girl hear? Answer: the roll of the drums that announced the king's presence
Context: After a time the foster-mother wanted to take another journey, and she forbade the girl, above all, to go into the two rooms which, as yet, she had not entered. When the foster-mother returned, and saw the moon had slipped out, she again grieved greatly, and told the girl she could keep her no longer, and that now she must go. Question: What will the girl do when the foster-mother makes another journey? Answer: open the third door
Context: Oh, what a good supper Jack had that night, quite forgetting that he owed it to a mean trick. At first the old man ate quite greedily, and said nothing; but, after his hunger was satisfied, he turned to Jack and said:  'That is a very clever trick of yours. Question: What could the old man's bag do? Answer: give Jack as many castles as he can possibly want
Context: In spring, when the swallows and storks came, the fir-tree asked them, 'Do you know where they were taken? 'Rejoice in your youth,' said the sunbeams, 'rejoice in the sweet growing time, in the young life within you.' Question: Who told the little fir-tree where the magnificent trees were going? Answer: the stork
Context: One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: What was the Prince's name? Answer: Milan
Context: After waiting several days, as the dog Shiro did not return, his master began to grow anxious. Without any shame or hesitation, the wicked neighbor answered that he had killed Shiro because of his bad behavior. Question: Why did the old man want the yenoki tree? Answer: in remembrance of his poor dog Shiro
Context: All traces of the warrior had disappeared, and in the shining surface only a beautiful lady looked back at him. They were talking of the news which had recently been carried to them, that the King's son had entered their country with a large army determined to exterminate their band. Question: What was hidden in Yamato's silk down? Answer: a sharp dagger
Context: Ko-ko of course bethought him of the bones, for that was just what, as he knew, had occurred to Onwee Bahmondang under the like circumstances. He then desired that they would turn him into an opossum; an application which met with the same luck as the previous one. Ko-ko, in spite of all his begging and supplication and beseeching, was obliged to be still Ko-ko. Question: What happened to the fish-bone after Ko-ko thrusted it into the trunk of the tree? Answer: snapped
Context: And as to that true God of thine, worker of miracles and helper of His people, no miracle in all the world is there that I, by mine own unaided power, cannot work the like. I can call up to life men fiercely fighting in conflict, slaughtering one another. She called upon Cairnech to arise and to gather together the clans of the children of his people, the men of Owen and of Niall, and together they went to the fort; but Sheen guarded it well, so that they could by no means find an entrance. Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. as she rose on high, her plumes quivered for a moment in the air; then down she swooped and picked him from the waves, carrying him to her eyrie on the dismal cliff outhanging o'er the ocean; and the griffin began to pierce him and to prod him with her talons, and to pick out pieces of his flesh with her beak; and this went on awhile, and then a flame, that came he knew not whence, rose from the nest, and he and the griffin were enveloped in the flame. Question: Why did Murtough have many terrible dreams and visions? Answer: He drank the wine.
Context: The organ played and the children's voices in the choir sounded soft and lovely. The bright warm sunshine streamed through the window into the pew where Karen sat, and her heart became so filled with it, so filled with peace and joy, that it broke. Question: What happened to her heart after her heard filled with peace and joy? Answer: it broke
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: Why did the guards laugh at Tom instead of letting him through? Answer: Tom looked funny.
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who reigned over a great kingdom. It is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned, not alone in the royal castle, but throughout the land; for the queen had been beloved of all. Question: How did the king feel when the queen fell ill and died? Answer: sad
Context: Saying this, he hung the badger up to the rafters of his storehouse and went out to his work in the fields. Her face was seamed with many wrinkles, and was as brown as leather, and every now and then she stopped to wipe the perspiration which rolled down her face. Question: What will the badger try to do? Answer: escape
Context: Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, but visited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest he should be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and shepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport. Question: What did the bride forget to buy? Answer: the different coloured reels of cotton
Context: THEN old Mrs. Rabbit took a basket and her umbrella, to the baker's. FLOPSY, Mopsy, and Cottontail, who were good little bunnies, went down the lane to gather blackberries;  BUT Peter, who was very naughty, ran straight away to Mr. McGregor's garden and squeezed under the gate! Question: Why was Peter looking for some parsely? Answer: Because he was feeling sick after stealing some lettuces, French beans, and radishes from Mr. McGregor's garden.
Context: They asked of her, "Who art thou, maiden, and wherefore art thou come to the house of mourning? And though it was I who wrought his death, I myself will die for grief of him." Moreover, in his time the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin were scattered and destroyed, the folk of the underworld and of my fatherland; and to avenge the wrong and loss he wrought on them I slew the man I loved. Question: Why was the king dear to Sheen? Answer: She loved him.
Context: So trouble and anger wrought in the witch woman, and she waited the day to be revenged on Murtough, for he being yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm. So when Sheen (for Sheen or "Storm" was the name men gave to her) saw the King seated on the fairy mound and all his comrades parted from him, she arose softly, and combed her hair with her comb of silver adorned with little ribs of gold, and she washed her hands in a silver basin wherein were four golden birds sitting on the rim of the bowl, and little bright gems of carbuncle set round about the rim. Question: Why did the witch wait the day to be revenged on Murtough? Answer: He being yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm.
Context: Then the King said to her, 'I will appoint a tournament in your honour, and I will invite all the princes in the world to it, and if any one of them pleases you, you shall marry him.' In the evening the Princess told this to the Crab, who said to her, 'Take this rod, go to the garden gate and knock with it, then a black man will come out and say to you, ' 'Why have you called me, and what do you require of me?' Question: Why did the king appoint a tournament in the Princess's honor? Answer: The king wanted the Princess to marry a different prince.
Context: Yet when she had lain down and put out the light, she saw a man come in and cast himself down in a corner. But first you must promise me that you will never speak to your mother alone; but only when others are present. Question: Why did the maiden never see the bear? Answer: He never came until she had put out the light and before dawn brightened he had disappeared again.
Context: The old servant Katoda was rewarded with the highest promotion in his master's service. Hase-Hime lived to a good old age, and all said that she was the wisest, most devout, and most beautiful mistress that had ever reigned in Prince Toyonari's ancient house. Question: Who did the little Princess owe her life to? Answer: Katoda
Context: Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough; but my right eye began to smart, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and then stared, for never in all my life was I so frightened. Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly. Question: How could Molly be saved? Answer: If John could catch her by the hand or cloak when she rid  by, and had courage not to let go his grip.
Context: "You must call the raven," said the wolf, and that is what the king's son did. And the raven came at once, and flew right down with the key, and now the prince could enter the church. Now the prince again did not know how he was to get hold of it. " Question: What happened when the prince grasped and lifted the duck? Answer: the egg fell into the well
Context: Well, we had everything of the best, and plenty of it; and we ate, and we drank, and we danced, and the young master, by the same token, danced with Peggy Barry, from the Bohereen--a lovely young couple they were, though they are both low enough now. Well, I thought, for all that, in myself, I'd just step to Molly Cronohan's, the fairy woman, to speak a word about the bracket heifer that was bewitched; and so, as I was crossing the stepping-stones of the ford of Ballyashenogh, and was looking up at the stars, an  blessing myself--for why? Question: Why did Daniel step to Molly Cronohan's? Answer: to speak a word about the bracket heifer that was bewitched
Context: There was once a woman who wanted to have quite a tiny, little child, but she did not know where to get one from. 'Oh, thank you!'said the woman, and gave the Witch a shilling, for that was what it cost. Question: How did the woman feel when a large and beautiful flower grew from the pot? Answer: excited
Context: So they sent to the smith, and he forged a club of two hundred-weights. Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy himself, and forged himself a club of thirty hundred-weights. Question: Why was the six hundred-weight club not enough for Murmur Goose-Egg? Answer: He did not think it was big enough.
Context: Young man, the errand you are bound on is beset with trials and difficulties. But powerful Indians, warriors of a distant chief, came and told him that their chief's daughter was on the brink of the grave, and that she herself requested his wampum-cap, which she was confident would save her life. ' Question: What will happen after the daughter sees the wampum-cap? Answer: The daughter will recover.
Context: I AM sorry to say that Peter was not very well during the evening. His mother put him to bed, and made some camomile tea; and she gave a dose of it to Peter! Question: What did Peter's mother give to Peter compared to his siblings? Answer: The mother gave Peter a camomile tea while his sibilings had bread, milk, and blackberries for supper.
Context: One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passing along the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleating loudly. So he went up to where it was standing, and as it seemed so tired that it could hardly walk, he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued on his way. Question: What did William notice as he was passing by? Answer: a sheep who was bleating loudly
Context: They made a special mock of the walking-staff, and scarcely an hour in the day passed that they had not some disparaging reference to it. "True," said Oweenee, "it is but a simple stick; but as it supports the steps of my husband, it is more precious to me than all the forests of the north." Question: Why did everyone doubt whether Osseo would be able to undertake the journey? Answer: He was aged and feeble.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: How will Sylvia feel parting from the Fairy? Answer: sad
Context: Once upon a time there was a young man named Farquhar MacNeill. However, before he saw what he took to be the light from a cottage window on his left hand, some distance from the path, and, forgetting his Mistress's instructions that he was to follow the path right over the hill. Question: Why did Farquhar believe his mistress's instructions were strange to him? Answer: He would be sure to see the light in the window.
Context: From that time on the farmer-boy could make himself invisible, was able to see ghosts and devils, and had intercourse with the spirit-world. In cases of sickness, when people lay unconscious, he could call back their souls, and if some one had committed a sin he could plead for them. Question: How did the farmer earn much money? Answer: when people lay unconscious, he could call back their souls, and if some one had committed a sin he could plead for them
Context: Lisa ate, Aina ate, and in a little while their baskets were full. They had never been so far in the great wood before, they could not find any road nor path, and soon the girls noticed that they had lost their way. Question: Why did Aina and Lisa lose their way home? Answer: They had never been so far in the great wood before, they could not find any road nor path.
Context: yes,' said the miller, 'last night the wolves have eaten our fattest ram there by the kiln not far from here.' But, you see, Jonas, it might happen that one of them might bite me in the back, and I should have more trouble in killing them. Question: How many wolves could Walter hunt by himself? Answer: three
Context: And this cup was filled with heather ale, which foamed up over the brim; and when the Knight saw Sir Gregory, he lifted it from the table, and handed it to him with a stately bow, and Sir Gregory, being very thirsty, drank. And as he drank he noticed that the ale in the goblet never grew less, but ever foamed up to the edge; and for the first time his heart misgave him, and he wished that he had never set out on this strange adventure. Question: What did Earl Gregory notice while he was drinking the ale? Answer: The ale in the goblet never grew less.
Context: Eight days and eight nights she stayed by the well, and experienced no want of provisions. During the last night there had been a sound borne on the breeze, as if there were cousins in the neighborhood. Question: How long did the otad stay by the well? Answer: eight days and eight nights
Context: The next morning the giant got up early, and went into the forest. Then she adorned the wardrobe with flowers and wreaths, and toward evening the king's youngest son again crawled under the bed. How silly you are," said the giant, "you could never reach the place where I keep my heart." " Question: Why did the giant tell the princess the true location of his heart? Answer: The giant could no longer resist.
Context: Then they gave her food and drink, and led her to a beautifully made bed of silk and samite, on which she lay down and slept soundly. When the day dawned she arose, and the old toad gave her three things out of the huge chest to take with her. Question: What did the little toad do when the Princess told everything that had happened to her? Answer: went and brought out a great chest
Context: He knew very well that he had enough inside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very good opinion of his own value. A large doll, still handsome, though rather old, for her neck had been mended, lay inside one of the drawers which was partly open. Question: Which toy was inside the drawer that was partly open? Answer: a large doll
Context: A little back from the high road there stands a house which is called 'Hemgard.' But on the other side of the garden there is a lake, and beyond the lake is a village, and all around stretch meadows and fields, now yellow, now green. Question: Where did Caro, Bravo, and Putte live? Answer: Caro lived in the dog house, Bravo in the stable, Putte with the stableman.
Context: Murmur was given a few cart-loads of provisions in his big knapsack, and once more set out. But the troll was not out in the open, and the mountain was closed, so Murmur could not get it. Question: Why could Murmur not get to the troll? Answer: The troll was not out in the open and the mountain was closed.
Context: As she was eagerly telling her godmother whatever had passed at the ball, her two sisters knocked at the door, which Cinderella ran and opened. cried she, gaping, rubbing her eyes and stretching herself as if she had been just waked out of her sleep; she had not, however, any manner of inclination to sleep since they went from home. Question: Why did Cinderella rub her eyes and stretch herself as if she had been just woken out of her sleep? Answer: She needed to pretend she was at home.
Context: There was once upon a time a king called Kojata, whose beard was so long that it reached below his knees. Three years had passed since his marriage, and he lived very happily with his wife, but Heaven granted him no heir, which grieved the King greatly. Question: What did the King do when he became thirsty? Answer: He mounted his horse, and rode through the neighbourhood looking for a spring.
Context: He had never heard such music since the hour that he was born. So he blessed the little white singing-bird, and gladly went his way. Question: Why did the Abbot say he could never tire the bird's song? Answer: The birds sung sweetly.
Context: The King of the Polar Bears lived among the icebergs in the far north country. The seals were afraid when he drew near, and tried to avoid him; but the gulls, both white and gray, loved him because he left the remnants of his feasts for them to devour. Question: Where did the King of the Polar Bears live? Answer: among the icebergs in the far north country
Context: Walter is six years old, and he must soon begin to go to school. He was wonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at home with his brothers and sister, then he used often to say 'One wolf is nothing, there ought to be at least four.' Question: How old was Walter? Answer: six years old
Context: They searched the hall, and there was no man, and the castle, and there was none. No others were bought throughout the whole of Hereford, till the saddlers banded together and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions. Question: How did Rhiannon, Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi feel after everything disappeared? Answer: concerned
Context: The happiest hour of the day both for the old man and his dog was when the man returned from his work in the field. Sure enough, Shiro was waiting for his master and the evening tit-bit. Question: What did Shiro do when the old man said "Chin, chin!"? Answer: sat up and begged
Context: One day he sallied forth in search of adventures, for he had the nature of a warrior and could not bear to be idle. The monster seemed to be asleep, and as it breathed, fire and smoke came out of its nostrils. Question: Where did Seta-no-Karashi span? Answer: Lake Biwa
Context: There was also in the house a ram with a white belly, a jet-black head, dark-green horns, and green feet; and there was in the end of the house a hag covered with a dark ash-coloured garment. The man at the door-post welcomed us; and we five, having our five hounds with us, sat on the floor of the bruighean. ' I could be but with difficulty recognised; and the lamentation of Caoilte on account of my being in that condition was greater than that he had before given vent to on account of my thirst. Question: What will happen if Fionn does not drink water from the other fountain? Answer: Fionn will die.
Context: Now the poor labourer was but a clumsy dancer, and he held back with a shamefaced air. For in a moment he found himself waltzing and whirling, sliding and bowing, as if he had done nothing else but dance all his life. Question: What happened after the poor man started dancing? Answer: He forgot about his home and his children. He felt so happy that he had no longer the slightest desire to leave the Fairies' company.
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: Why did Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor? Answer: They were both very fond of the chase.
Context: Then the mother screamed with terror, "Which of them was my child? Forget my tears, forget my prayers, and all that I have done!" " Question: How does the mother feel? Answer: terrified
Context: The Fowl looked at it first with one eye and then with the other, for she did not know what the end of this writhing would be. "It doesn't do that with a good will," thought the Fowl, and lifted up her head to peck at the Caterpillar. Question: How did the little toad feel after watching the interaction between the fowl and the catepillar? Answer: horrified
Context: Momotaro knew at once that what they saw was the devils' stronghold. On the top of the precipitous shore, looking out to sea, was a large castle. Question: What did the animals do while Momotaro was deep in thought? Answer: watched him
Context: On another occasion, in the days of Kien Lung, the minister Dschou
Ling was ordered to install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands. When
the fleet was sailing by south of Korea, a storm arose, and his ship
was driven toward the Black Whirlpool. Question: Why were the seamen overjoyed after red lanterns appeared? Answer: The Queen of Heaven came to their aid.
Context: He acquired all sorts of magic powers by means of which he extended his life-span. He agreed to give him a hundred pieces of copper daily; yet he did not pay him, and finally he owed him seven million, two hundred thousand pieces of copper. Question: What did Laotsze do when his servant insisted on being paid? Answer: gave him nothing
Context: He puts on the baby's frock upside down, and, one day, I found him trying to feed her with boiling soup, and her mouth was scalded for days after. Then he picks up stones in the road and sows them instead of potatoes, and one day he wanted to go into the garden from the top window, because he declared it was a shorter way than through the door.' Question: Why did the wife's husband want to go into the garden from the top window? Answer: because he declared it was a shorter way than through the door
Context: As she was busy washing her clothes a great peach came bumping down the stream. The old woman looked up from her work and saw this large peach. Question: How did the woman feel when she saw the peach? Answer: surprised
Context: Then he went to the king and asked whether he could give him work. He wanted no other pay than the right to give the king three good thumps on the back when there was no more work for him to do. Question: What did the bears do in the stable? Answer: ate up all the king's cattle
Context: The invited guests were already thronging round the table, when the head cook entered the room, bearing a beautiful wedding cake on a silver dish, and laid it before Prince Milan. Without pausing for a moment, Milan and Hyacinthia mounted him and galloped as fast as they could into the country of King Kojata. Question: What happened when the Prince cut the cake? Answer: Two white doves sprang out of it.
Context: He brought out the kitchen knife, and, placing the peach on a board, was about to cut it when, wonderful to tell, the peach split in two of itself and a clear voice said:  "Wait a bit, old man!" Every day and every night you have lamented that you had no child. Question: Who sent the child to the couple? Answer: heaven
Context: "Do you think there is any one who would pay all that money for such an arrant sinner's sake?" If he could manage to have him buried, he would be willing to pay for the wake out of his own slender purse. Question: Why would no one want to pay all that money to bury the corpse, according to the pastor? Answer: The man was an arrant sinner.
Context: And Snowflake grew fast; each hour as well as each day made a difference, and every day she became more and more beautiful. The cottage was always full of village children, for they amused Snowflake, and there was nothing in the world they would not have done to amuse her. Question: Who had skin as white as snow and eyes as blue as forget-me-nots? Answer: Snowflake
Context: The devil obediently thrust both hands into the split, and tore and clawed with all his might; but suddenly Murmur Goose-Egg knocked out the wedge, and there the devil was caught in a vice, while Murmur belabored his back with the ax. Besides that, he had to promise to build a bridge over the sound, on which one could go back and forth at all seasons of the year. Question: Why did the king come to see Murmur Goose-Egg? Answer: to see whether he were lying crushed on the ground or had merely been badly beaten
Context: And he went to sleep, and there was heavy sleep on him, and Morraha went in and took hold of the sword that was on the bed at his head. "Well," said the man, "let us sit down together till I tell the story. I would be laughing, and my wife would be asking me what was the reason of my laughing. Question: How was Niall waken? Answer: The sword gave a cry.
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: Why did the princess not smile when she was in the gallery? Answer: Nothing amused her.
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Why did the hunter find no difficulty in hunting as much as he wanted? Answer: game was very abundant
Context: Prince Toyonari, after some weeks, came home, and was told by his wife that his daughter Hime had done something wrong and had run away for fear of being punished. One day, trying to forget his terrible worry, he called all his men together and told them to make ready for a several days' hunt in the mountains. Question: Where did Prince Toyonari ride to? Answer: the district of the Hibari Mountains
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: What increased Sentaro's miserable plight? Answer: He swallowed a quantity of sea-water.
Context: The next day--well, perhaps we had better pass over the next day. The evening had come, and the lamp was resting in a grandfather's chair; and guess where! Question: Where was the streetlamp resting? Answer: at the watchman's house
Context: The fisherman spent several days in the cave, satisfying his hunger with the green slime, which he found edible and which tasted like rice-mush. He told the district mandarin what had happened to him, and the latter reported the matter to the emperor. Question: What did the fisherman eat in the cave? Answer: green slime
Context: Although he provided for their support, the little spirit never performed household or hard work of any kind, and his sister obeyed. "She thinks," said the boy-man to himself, "I can see no further into the water than she. Question: What happened to the boy after he called to be swallowed? Answer: A monstrous fish came and swallowed him.
Context: Poor Thomas, meanwhile, stood far away at the other end of the Hall, feeling very lonely, yet fascinated by the extraordinary scene on which he was gazing. For, although all the fine Ladies, and Courtiers, and Knights were dancing in one part of the Hall, there were huntsmen coming and going in another part, carrying in great antlered deer, which apparently they had killed in the chase, and throwing them down in heaps on the floor. Question: Why did Thomas feel very lonely at the castle? Answer: He could not talk to anyone.
Context: "It is time to mount and ride, Thomas," she said, "if thou wouldst ever see the fair Castle of Ercildoune again." Thou spokest of seven long years, Lady," he exclaimed, "and I have been here but three days." Question: Why did the Queen take Thomas back to his country the same night? Answer: She did not want anything bad to happen to him.
Context: The pig swam across on his own bacon, which was easy enough; but the pancake could not get across. "Sit down on my snout," said the pig, "and I will carry you over that way." Question: What happened because the pancake could not get across? Answer: The pig offered to carry it over and ate it.
Context: There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow. When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was no wife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become of their mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men and women, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in the middle of them, going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep. Question: What did the wife always think about? Answer: her family and her farm
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: Why did Cairnech send messengers? Answer: to seek Murtough
Context: Anyhow, he saw that it would be the wisest plan to pretend obedience in the absence of the girl's father. With the help of some peasants he soon built a little cottage, and having sent secretly for his wife to come, these two good old people did all in their power to take care of the now unfortunate Princess. Question: Who took care of the Princess? Answer: Katoda
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: What happened after the youngest princess lost her son? Answer: A beautiful little girl was sent to her.
Context: Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat, making clothes for her children. However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, as they would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king's. Question: Why didn't her husband want to buy the houses? Answer: He had long since made a gift of them to his brother.
Context: "Send out all my soldiers and horsemen," said the king, "tear down the castle instantly, hang whoever built it, and see to this at once." Question: How did the king's courtiers feel when they saw the new castle? Answer: shocked
Context: He came to the river of nine bends, whose green waters flowed along between two rows of weeping-willows. So the Dragon-King sent out a Triton, terrible to look upon, who was to find out what was the matter. Question: What did Notscha do after he turned seven years old? Answer: ran away from home
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: Where did the younger brother and elder brother have their case before the highest judge of all? Answer: in the city of Evora
Context: Once upon a time there was a prince or a duke or whatever you choose to call him, but at any rate a noble tremendously high-born, who did not want to stay at home. He at once found friends and acquaintances, no matter where he came; for whoever has a full trough can always find pigs to thrust their snouts into it. Question: What did the duke do after he ran out of money? Answer: wandered back home again like a journeyman apprentice, and begged his way as he went
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: What would happen if someone killed a raven? Answer: They would get a fourpenny bit.
Context: The next morning Silverwhite hung his sword at his side, called his dogs to him, and wandered down to the sea-shore alone. When the king's daughter and her escort saw the fearless youth, they were much frightened, because they thought he was the sea-troll. Question: What did the princess's escort do when he saw the fearless youth? Answer: ran away and took refuge in a tree
Context: Murmur was given a few cart-loads of provisions in his big knapsack, and once more set out. But the troll was not out in the open, and the mountain was closed, so Murmur could not get it. Question: What happened while Murmur was working? Answer: The first cart-load of provisions had already been eaten up.
Context: He kissed her for the last time, and was off the next minute, walking as fast as he could. Her life was almost leaving her, when, just as the sun was setting, he turned up a lane, and went into a little house. Question: Where did the husband go to when the sun was about to set? Answer: a little house
Context: 'Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped?' But it sounded horrid, and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf. Question: Why did Walter decide not to lie? Answer: He believed telling a lie was a sin.
Context: "Peter,"--said little Benjamin, in a whisper--"who has got your clothes?" PETER replied--"The scarecrow in Mr. McGregor's garden," and described how he had been chased about the garden, and had dropped his shoes and coat. Question: Why were Peter's clothes in Mr. McGregor's garden? Answer: He had been chased about the garden and had dropped his shoes and coat.
Context: And now we have got rid of her, we must consider what we are to do with the old dog. No, the first time I see him, it's all up with him, I can tell you.' Question: Why is Simon upset with the old dog? Answer: Because he is quite deaf and blind and invariably barks when there is no need, and makes no sound when there is.
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: What did the green ointment do? Answer: wouldn't let Tom be burned, nor scalded, nor wounded
Context: When the bundle was laid before him, Maidwa opened one of the bags which had been given to him. The chief himself talked with Maidwa of his adventures, congratulated him on his good fortune, and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning. After suitable refreshment for all, and while Maidwa smoked a pipe, the chief asked him to relate his adventures in the hearing of all the inmates of the lodge, and of the strangers who had gathered in at report of his singular fortunes. He added, that since he had shown himself a man of spirit, whom fortune was pleased to befriend, he should take his daughter with him. " It is always the case in an assembly or gathering that some one of the number is foolish, and disposed to play the clown. Question: What will happen when Maidwa visits the next town? Answer: Maidwa will receive the chief's daughter.
Context: There was once a king, called King O'Toole, who was a fine old king in the old ancient times, long ago. Well, the King (you see) was the right sort--he was the real boy, and loved sport as he loved his life, and huntin' in particular. Question: Who was the church built after? Answer: St. Kavin
Context: Then the scholar said: "I have a means of driving away old age!" Then his son and the older grand-children
came up and all asked for a drink of the wine. Question: What did the emperor do when he heard about the tale? Answer: wanted to call Liu to his court
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: Why did the wolf begin to howl? Answer: He had neither child nor hand.
Context: When he reached the sound, the river was full of drifting ice, and it roared like a waterfall. When he had warmed himself and satisfied his hunger, he wanted to sleep; but a tumult and rumbling started, as though the whole castle were to be turned upside down. Question: What did Murmur want to do when the tumult and rumbling started? Answer: sleep
Context: "Oh, I wouldn't mind," said the lamb again; "I shall grow more wool by winter-time, and I'm sure I don't look any worse than you do." Some of the sheep looked at the ram and began to giggle, for he was old and thin, and looked very comical indeed without any wool. Question: How did the Black Sheep feel about her wool keeping the farmer warm for the winter? Answer: glad
Context: Before he had time to defend himself my unhappy lover was swallowed up by the dragon. "I love you already better than anyone in the world," she said; "but now it is time to go back to your father, and we shall hear what he says about it." Question: What did the White Cat do to regain her normal form? Answer: win the love of a prince who resembled in every way  her unfortunate lover
Context: When mass had been said, the schoolmaster was invited to the parsonage. When he had drunk his coffee, the wife and daughter drew him aside into another room, and the wife complained that her husband had grown so old and decrepit that he could not keep up much longer. Question: What happened because the priest had grown so old and decrepit? Answer: He could not keep up much longer.
Context: At last he went out, but nothing could be seen or heard of the captive daughter. It would be a mortal shame, thought the king, to be outstripped by a man with one leg tied up; so, shouting and cheering, and issuing orders on all sides, he set the swiftest of his herd upon the track, with strict commands to take Aggo dead or alive. Question: What did the king order his herd to do? Answer: take Aggo dead or alive
Context: After they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. One day they agreed to kill each a male of that kind of animal, which each was most expert in hunting, for the purpose of making quivers from their skins. Question: Who was the second brother? Answer: Jeekewis
Context: When they were all assembled and seated in a circle, the old chief took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians around, to see if any thing would happen when they smoked. From that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor, and as soon as White Feather had, at the request of the company, faithfully recounted his history, the old chief, who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived, ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs; which being done, the whole six giants were at an end, and never troubled that neighborhood again, forever after. The old chief replied to this application, that a woman must follow her husband into whatever quarter of the world he may choose to go. Question: How will the Indians feel about hunting as many buffalos as they pleased? Answer: happy
Context: 'The men of the town are so silly that we can make them believe anything we please,' said they. 'Well, here is a gold ring,' replied he, 'and I will give it to the one amongst you who can make her husband believe the most impossible thing.' Question: Why did the woman say her husband was sick? Answer: She needed to make her husband the silliest thing.
Context: The maiden now rode for many days and weeks, and it took a long, long time before she came to the East Wind. But if you wish, I will take you to my brother, the West Wind, and perhaps he can tell you, for he is much stronger than I am. Question: Who was stronger than the East Wind? Answer: the West Wind
Context: When the wedding-day came, the friends and neighbours assembled, the miller having invited them, and the bridegroom also appeared. But the bride sat still, and said nothing, till at last the bridegroom said to her,  "Now, sweetheart, do you know no story? Question: Who assembled at the wedding day? Answer: the friends and neighbors
Context: Now matters were arranged to suit him, and he was quite content as he turned his face to the wall and closed his eyes. There was one room after another, and wherever he went walls and ceilings were covered with ornaments and decorations of every kind, all glittering so splendidly when the rays of the sun fell on them that he had to put his hand to his eyes; for wherever he looked everything sparkled with gold and silver. Question: How did the duke feel once matters were arranged to suit him? Answer: content
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: What had the cabin-boy been doing all summer long? Answer: travelling with his captain
Context: But just as she entered the church and took the hand of the bridegroom, who was waiting for her, a loud noise was heard. and the wedding garments fell to the ground, to the great confusion of the wearer. Question: How did the wedding guests feel after they saw the dress? Answer: amazed
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: Why didn't Earl St. Clair heed his companion's words? Answer: His mother told him that the Sign of the Blessed Trinity would protect him from any spell
Context: He was very tired, but the thought of the nice supper of hot badger soup awaiting his return cheered him. I have made the badger soup and have been waiting for you for a long time." Question: What cheered up the old man? Answer: the thought of the nice supper of hot badger soup awaiting his return
Context: That night he died, and his wife and son and daughter mourned for him seven days, and gave him a burial according to the custom of his people. 'I am going away from you,' she said to her children, in a faint voice; 'but first, my son, choose which you will have: blessing or property.' Question: Why did the mother pass away? Answer: attacked by a disease
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: Where did many bad women live? Answer: through a street
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: Where did the boys shelter? Answer: the trees
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: What did Conan ask Fionn to do with the byword? Answer: tell him the meaning of the byword
Context: There was also in the house a ram with a white belly, a jet-black head, dark-green horns, and green feet; and there was in the end of the house a hag covered with a dark ash-coloured garment. The man at the door-post welcomed us; and we five, having our five hounds with us, sat on the floor of the bruighean. ' I could be but with difficulty recognised; and the lamentation of Caoilte on account of my being in that condition was greater than that he had before given vent to on account of my thirst. Question: What happened to Fionn after he drank the first water Caoilte gave him? Answer: darting pains and symptoms of death seized Fionn and agonising pangs from the poisonous draught
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: Why did the young man's father want to buy a bigger chest? Answer: The chest was going to be full soon.
Context: So he took pen and ink and wrote something, and when he had done Jack my Hedgehog pointed out the way and the King got safely home. Then the King remembered Jack my Hedgehog, and he told his daughter how he had been obliged to give a written promise to bestow whatever he first met when he got home on an extraordinary creature which had shown him the way. Question: Why was the Princess pleased with her father's trick? Answer: Her father did not owe Jack my Hedgehog anything.
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The voice replied, 'Very well; but it will go ill with you if you fail to keep your promise.' One day the Prince went out hunting, and going in pursuit of a wild boar he soon lost the other huntsmen, and found himself quite alone in the middle of a dark wood. With these words the old man disappeared into the tree, and the Prince returned home rather startled, and told his father all that he had seen and heard. Question: Who was the old man? Answer: the voice from the well
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: What happened after the boy sprang over the chess table? Answer: Conchubar seized him deftly by the wrist and brought him to a stand.
Context: The magician groaned again and again, and said, rather peevishly, "No, these are not the dreams." Early the next morning Maidwa set out to fulfill his promise; and in the afternoon, when the sun hangs toward home, he heard the shouts of a great many people. Question: How will the magician feel when he hears the correct dream? Answer: happy
Context: He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit of armour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and the other people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. When the King's daughter came home she said that she would never marry a man but the man whom that shoe would fit. Question: Why would the king's daughter only marry the man who could fit the shoe? Answer: He was her champion.
Context: When he was about to leave, the man made him a present of a new fishing-boat, full of meal, and tackle and other useful things. All you need do is to follow the cormorant when he heads for the open sea, then you will be on the right course," said the man. " Question: How did Isaac feel towards the man? Answer: grateful
Context: Now there was a little garden round the enchanted house, in which grew twelve tall lilies. But hardly had she plucked the flowers when her brothers were turned into twelve ravens, who flew croaking over the wood, and the house and garden vanished also. Question: How did the sister feel when her brothers changed into ravens? Answer: sad
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. She paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife. Question: What did the woman do when the queen died? Answer: She at once began to plan how she might marry the king.
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: Who said the division was unfair? Answer: the ram
Context: "No," said Watanabe, "I am sorry, but I cannot grant your request." I have only just heard of your brave act, and not being able to wait till the morning I came at once to ask you to show it to me." Question: Why did Watanabe shut the door carefully? Answer: to make sure the ogre would not come in
Context: The old man did so, and when they came to the palace he hid her behind the great picture and advised her to keep quite still, and he placed himself behind the picture also. Presently the eagles came flying in, and changed themselves into young men, and in a moment the Princess recognised her husband amongst them all, and tried to come out of her hiding-place; but the old man held her back. Question: How did the Princess feel when she recognized her husband? Answer: happy
Context: When he came to court they at once took him on as a herdsman. As long as Peter was on the common or in the enclosure, he kept his hares together nicely, but later, when they reached the forest, they ran away from him across the hills. Question: What happened when Peter and the hares reached the forest? Answer: The hares ran away from him across the hills.
Context: Yes, sure enough, just then a shaggy, reddish-brown wolf's head looked out from under the kiln! He certainly jumped on to Walter, but he only shook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face. Question: How did Walter feel while the wolf chased after him? Answer: terrified
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: Where was the ancient Capital of Japan? Answer: Nara
Context: As he sat up in his tree he played away on his pipes and drew the loveliest music from them. The King desired the servant to ask the strange creature why it sat there, and if it knew the shortest way to his kingdom. Question: How did the King feel when he heard the music? Answer: surprised
Context: Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them. Thus did the wife find consolation in work during the lonely days of her husband's absence. Question: What happened because of the man's difficult journey? Answer: He did not look the same.
Context: Very sorrowful was Manawyddan, but Pryderi was stout of heart, and bade him be of good cheer. Let us go now to seek Rhiannon, and the lands where she dwells.' Question: Who did Pryderi want Manawyddan to be married to? Answer: his mother Rhiannon
Context: I had bitten the youngest boy in the leg, because he took away the bone I was gnawing; a bone for a bone, I thought! The Snow-man, however, was not listening to him any more; he was looking into the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on its four iron legs, and seemed to be just the same size as the Snow-man. Question: Where did the Snow-man want to go? Answer: the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on its four iron legs
Context: By this act the marriage ceremony was completed, and Owasso and the magician's daughter were man and wife. But no sooner was Owasso in the family than the old Manito wished him out of the way. Question: How will the oldest daughter feel about Owasso being her husband? Answer: happy
Context: The old man was much surprised at hearing all this from a mere boy of fifteen. He was strong and fearless, and besides all this, the old man knew he was no common child, for he had been sent to them as a gift from Heaven, and he felt quite sure that the devils would be powerless to harm him. Question: Why did the man think the devils would be powerless to harm Momotaro? Answer: He was strong and fearless.
Context: But now the time was come for Sylvia to receive her gift, and all her companions were assembled. This lovely gift makes life a constant happiness to its possessor, and to all who are brought into contact with her. Question: Why did Sylvia ask for a quiet spirit? Answer: She did not want a gift like the other princesses.
Context: When he had come into the village, he told them how Wassamo had disappeared. At the cousin's request, many of the men visited the fish-fire. Question: Where did many of the men visit? Answer: the fish-fire
Context: At length, one morning early, a cock began to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed to understand what he was saying. She was creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew. And as she scooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song, bidding the bones grow till they became a tree. Question: Why did the youngest sister grow fat again? Answer: There was no Djulung to give her rice to.
Context: "I'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that's under your bed," says he. When he drove the cows home in the evening, they had that much milk that they had not half enough of vessels, and two coopers were obliged to make new vessels to hold the quantity of milk they had. "I am asking nothing of you but the loan of the old sword that is under your bed." I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," says he, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges from the body. "Oh," said the head, "if I were to get going on the body again, and the men of the world wouldn't get me off it again." Question: What will happen when the next giant tells the son to come down? Answer: The son will order the black thong to squeeze the giant.
Context: One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting expedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitch their camp. While the food was cooking they all stretched themselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off to sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over the sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire was almost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savage countries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light it again. Question: What did the fish tribe do after they came back from hunting expedition? Answer: looked about for a nice, cool spot
Context: And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and he saw the young man coming. But he went against her will, and he saw the currach coming, and the young man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach. Question: Who won the game on the fourth day? Answer: the young man
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Why were the young princes as happy as the day was long? Answer: They were near her.
Context: I could almost wish to be melted down; but no, that must not be while the old people live. I am as well off as the picture of the Congress, in which they take so much pleasure." Question: Why will the lamp stay with the old people as long as it can Answer: because it feels loved
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: How did Cairnech feel because Sheen guarded the fort well? Answer: angry
Context: Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo, a very remote part of Japan even in these days, a man and his wife. The visit to the temple when she was just thirty days old, her proud mother carrying her, robed in ceremonial kimono, to be put under the patronage of the family's household god. Question: What did the girl do when she was seven years old? Answer: learned to talk and to wait upon her parents
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: Why was the goose the greatest pet? Answer: It diverted the King to no end.
Context: Long years ago in old Japan there lived in the Province of Echigo, a very remote part of Japan even in these days, a man and his wife. The visit to the temple when she was just thirty days old, her proud mother carrying her, robed in ceremonial kimono, to be put under the patronage of the family's household god. Question: Why was her third birthday perhaps the most important occasion of all? Answer: Her first OBI of scarlet and gold was tired round her small waist.
Context: When he came within hail of the four large men, who were fishing there every day, he cast his ball with such force that it rolled into the ice-hole about which they were busy. Saying which he rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water. His ball bounded back to the surface, and, picking it up, he ran off, tossing it before him in his own sportive way. Question: How did the boy get the ball back? Answer: He rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water.
Context: She looked until it came near, when she perceived that it was another Weendigo or Giant Cannibal. The son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken, and as the father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground. Question: Why was the hunter amazed? Answer: His lodge was gone, and he saw his son sitting near the spot where it had stood, shedding tears.
Context: I could almost wish to be melted down; but no, that must not be while the old people live. I am as well off as the picture of the Congress, in which they take so much pleasure." Question: Why didn't the lamp want to be melted down? Answer: because it is loved by the old people
Context: Dschang Liang was a native of one of those states which had been destroyed by the Emperor Tsin Schi Huang. And Dschang Liang determined to do a deed for his dead king's sake, and to that end gathered followers with whom to slay Tsin Schi Huang. Question: Who was a native of one of those states which had been destroyed by the Emperor Tsin Schi Huang? Answer: Dschang Liang
Context: To the left of the coffin was a door, which led into an inner chamber. And there on the floor stood two shoes of red silk, whose tips were adorned with a woven pattern of clouds. Question: What did Emperor Tsin Schi Huang do when he reached the inner chamber? Answer: seated himself on the bed and looked down
Context: The sun would burn us, and the lions and the crocodiles would eat us up. They came to a shore where it was all so cool and familiar and friendly. Old Stina was milking the cows in the farmyard, and there was a very familiar lady in a check woollen shawl on her way to the bleaching green to see if the clothes were bleached. Question: Why didn't Little Lasse want to land in Africa? Answer: The sun would burn them, and the lions and the crocodiles would eat them up.
Context: So they handed him out acorn-cupfuls of honey-dew through the window,
and he was not at all offended. He sat outside in the sun, and said--"Tiddly, widdly, widdly! Question: What did the little mice do when Mr.Jackson could not enter Mrs. Tittlemouse's house? Answer: They handed him out acorn-cupful honeydew through the window.
Context: Then Hidesato called to the Dragon King to come out with him on the balcony, for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear. Then all the inhabitants of the palace came out with joy, and Hidesato pointed to the lake. Question: Why did the Dragon King have nothing more to fear? Answer: The centipede was dead.
Context: said Per Gynt, and he poured the whole kettleful of soup over his nose. Then laughter and jibes came from every corner, and one voice said: "Now Per Gynt will be no better off than the dairy-maids in the hut at Val!" Question: What did the troll do after Per Gynt poured soup on his nose? Answer: rushed off lamenting loudly
Context: When he arrived in the neighbourhood everything seemed strange. Worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles. Question: Where did Farquhar go to after the spell was broken? Answer: the neighborhood
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: Why did the wife decide to not rest until she got the unfinished houses? Answer: She was very greedy.
Context: Well, that would not be much of a task, said the women, and agreed to the proposal. But no sooner had she taken the shirt in her hand, than it began to look worse, and the more she washed and rubbed, the larger and blacker grew the spots. Question: What could all troll-women not do? Answer: wash out the spots
Context: The servants and conceited folk at the big house began to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge, and to annoy her with their impudence. and the servants that he used to be boasting to were soon flocking from the castle, and grinning, and huzzaing, and beating tunes on tongs and shovels and pans; and he cursing and swearing, and the eyes ready to start out of his head, and he so black in the face, and kicking out his legs behind him like mad. Question: What did the youngest princess ask the head footman to do? Answer: put his hand out at the window and cut her off a sprig or two of honeysuckle
Context: "But is it certain that there is no one here who can overhear us?" "No, you can see there's not," said the others, the wives of the first and second quartermasters. " Question: How did the cabin-boy know the crow was the captain's wife? Answer: by the way she spoke
Context: Then Jack rode on in front pointing out the way, and the King reached his own country in safety. He also told her how he had been obliged to pledge his word to give the creature the first thing which met him outside his castle gate, and he felt very sad at the thought that she had been the first thing to meet him. Question: How did the King feel when he thought about his daughter being the first thing to meet him? Answer: sad
Context: It is a great pity you did not ask me for the cakes if you wanted them. Not long after this the old man accidentally scattered some of the ashes made by the burning of the mortar on the trees of his garden. Question: What did the good old man ask for? Answer: the ashes of the mortar
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Why was Sylvia unwilling to go away? Answer: She loved the Fairy.
Context: Wassamo in the mean while had lost the sound of his cousin's voice in the rich simmer of the kettle; and when its music pleased his ear the most, as announcing that the fish were handsomely cooked, he lifted the kettle from the fire. Wassamo had a torch of twisted bark in one hand to give light, and when he came to take out the fish, there was no one to have charge of the torch. Question: Why did Wassamo take the wooden ladle and skim the kettle? Answer: fish were very plump and fat
Context: He would take good note of it, said the king's son, and he sat there with the Master Girl all day long until evening. The giant has sent me to fetch his tribute," said the king's son. " This the king's son did, and saw a great deal of gold and silver lying in the hill like dead rock in an ore-pile. I stood the sack of gold outside on the bench," was the reply. " Question: What did the king's son see when he went in? Answer: a great deal of gold and silver lying in the hill
Context: Suddenly Claribel Sudds, who happened to be present, uttered a scream and sprang to her feet. Pointing an accusing finger at the dancing senator, she cried in a loud voice:

"That's the man who stole my bonbons! Question: How did Claribel feel when she realized the senator took her bonbons? Answer: angry
Context: 'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck, and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest. So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some pieces of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes. Question: What was the first thing Guddhu the cod did to light the fire? Answer: stripped some pieces of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes
Context: The captain asked what sort of nonsense this might be, and whether he had ever heard of a cabin-boy's being entrusted with the command of a ship. But the boy answered that was all one to him; if they did not care to buy the three cords of birch-wood, and obey him, as though he were captain, for the space of a single day--the captain and crew should know which day it was to be in advance--then he would set foot on the ship no more, and far less would he ever dirty his hands with pitch and tar on her again. Question: What would the cabin-boy do if the captain did not meet his demands? Answer: set foot on the ship no more, and far less would he ever dirty his hands with pitch and tar on her again
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What did the Prince do with one of the garments? Answer: hid himself with it
Context: Then he blew himself up, and made himself so large and thick that he was quite horrible to look at. Gradually the North Wind grew weary, and became weaker and weaker. Question: What happened to the North Wind gradually? Answer: grew weary
Context: As they went on and came to the lodge of the first old man, their reception and farewell were the same; and when Maidwa glanced to the corner, the silent kettle, which had been the first acquaintance he had made in that family on his travels, was not there. When, on continuing their journey, they at last approached the first town which Maidwa had passed in his pursuit, the watchman gave notice as before, and he was shown into the chief's lodge. The chief himself talked with Maidwa of his adventures, congratulated him on his good fortune, and concluded by telling him that he should take his daughter along with him in the morning. Question: Why did the chief's daughter ignore Maidwa and the Red Swan? Answer: She was jealous of them as a couple.
Context: In every ship that sails a picture of the Queen of Heaven hangs in the
cabin, and three paper talismans are also kept on shipboard. But if this is of
no avail, then the second and finally the third picture is burned. Question: Why were there three paper talisman and a picture of the Queen of Heaven were kept on the ship? Answer: The seamen asked for help when there were in danger.
Context: At length, one morning early, a cock began to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed to understand what he was saying. She was creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew. And as she scooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song, bidding the bones grow till they became a tree. Question: What did the youngest sister do after she knew what the crow was saying? Answer: got up, and took up the large stone under the fire. She was creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew
Context: And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and he saw the young man coming. But he went against her will, and he saw the currach coming, and the young man was driving his balls from end to end of the currach. Question: What did the woman ask Morraha on the fourth day? Answer: how he had found himself
Context: When it was morning, and the children had got up, the Tin-soldier was put in the window; and whether it was the wind or the little black imp, I don't know, but all at once the window flew open and out fell the little Tin-soldier, head over heels, from the third-storey window! they must have found him; but he did not think it fitting for him to cry out, because he had on his uniform. Question: What did the nursery-maid and little boy do when the Tin-soldier fell? Answer: came down at once to look for him
Context: The man set out as early as possible, and had not as yet reached town before he met the old woman with the basket. " I do not fare so badly this way," thought the man, "but when he sets out for himself, then the matter will probably turn out differently." Question: Why did the man decide to buy the basket? Answer: He thought that this time he would make a better purchase.
Context: Then she shook the tree until the apples fell like rain, and she shook until there were no more to fall; and when she had gathered them together in a heap, she went on farther. You must take great pains to make my bed well, and shake it up thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about, and then in the world it snows, for I am Mother Hulda." Question: Who was the woman in the house? Answer: Mother Hulda
Context: The giant passed on before me and crossed Eas Roe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhuirn, without wetting his foot. He was followed by Caoilte Mac Ronan, together with the swiftest of the Fenians. They enquired what was the cause of the delay that the giant had not been slain. ' Question: Who came to Fionn and the giant? Answer: Liagan Luaimneach, from Luachar Deaghaidh
Context: A famous hunter who lived in a remote part of the North had a fair wife and two sons, who were left in the lodge every day while he went out in quest of the animals whose flesh was their principal support. If he had any message to deliver at their lodge, why did he not give it to their father? Do you, my children, tarry here until the hour of the falling of the sun, then come to the lodge and you will find me." In course of time the two boys had grown to be men, and although the mother was never more seen in the lodge, in charge of her household tasks, nor on the path in the forest, nor by the river side, she still lingered, ever and ever, near the lodge. Question: Why did the mother want to keep the young man a secret? Answer: The young man was her lover.
Context: When he returned he found his temple destroyed; and the spirit of the hill gave him the details. The latter bestowed upon him the magic of the fiery lance, and Notscha thenceforward had two whirling wheels beneath his feet: The wheel of the wind and the wheel of fire. Question: What did Notscha's master give Notscha? Answer: a bag of panther-skin in which to keep his armlet and his silken cloth
Context: 'Dan,' said the man in the moon, taking a pinch of snuff, when I was done, 'you must not stay here.' ' Faith, and with your leave,' says I, 'I'll not let go the grip, and the more you bids me the more I won't let go--so I will.' ' Question: What did the man on the moon tell Daniel not to do? Answer: stay here
Context: "Close your flowers and fold your leaves," said the old willow. " Even human beings dare not do that, for in the midst of the lightning one may look straight into God's heaven. Question: What does the willow say to do? Answer: Close your flowers, fold your leaves, and don't look at the lightning
Context: gasped one of the young men; and there it was, slowly but steadily mounting the ridge itself. Parents and children clung together, as if by that means they could drive back the advancing flood; and the youth who had caused all this terrible catastrophe, seized his sweetheart, and cried: 'I will climb with you to the top of that tree, and there no waters can reach us.' Question: What did the youth who caused the catastrophe tell his sweeatheart? Answer: To climb with her to the top of the tree where no waters can reach them.
Context: They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in. 'I hope you have been attended to properly,' said he, 'and that you will enjoy your dinner. Question: How did the charcoal-burner feel after the king said they may do as they pleased? Answer: surprised
Context: The old man and woman at once set to work to pound rice in the kitchen mortar to make cakes for Momotaro to take with him on his journey. At last the cakes were made and Momotaro was ready to start on his long journey. Question: When was Momotaro ready to start his long journey? Answer: the cakes were made
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. The touch of his hands appeared to work like magic, for no sooner had he finished than the wound seemed to deaden and die, leaving only the scar. Question: Why did the seals rub their noses again the old seal's nose? Answer: They wanted to show him how delighted they were at his recovery.
Context: "It will be running some risk," answered the man, "but I will do it sooner than that you should come to grief." Lastly the beautiful white feathers which I can stuff my pillow with. At last he spoke to him and said,  "You seem very well off, and merry with your grinding." Question: What did the knife-grinder sing? Answer: My scissors I grind, and my wheel I turn; And all good fellows my trade should learn, For all that I meet with just serves my turn.
Context: As years went by, however, things did not go as smoothly as at first. Then at last he began to grow tired of life in this country, and he longed to see his own land and his old home. Question: How did Sentaro grow tired of life in that country? Answer: He was busy from morning till night.
Context: Then Momotaro stood and gave this order:  "Now all of you must listen to me. The one who first begins a quarrel will be discharged on the spot!" Question: What was the first thing necessary in an army? Answer: harmony
Context: He sprang up, and discovered at a distance the figure of a human being, walking with a stick. Her path to the lake was perfectly smooth and solid, and the noise Strong Desire had heard was caused by the striking of her walking staff upon the ground. Question: Who did Strong Desire discover the figure as? Answer: the terrible witch
Context: Therefore Notscha's mother sent him to the rear of the house to keep out of his father's sight. And all the Dragon Kings of the four seas were assembled, and had bound his parents, with cries and tumult, in order to punish them. It is because you are always thinking of him that he appears to you in dreams. Question: What happened to Notscha after he destroyed himself? Answer: The spiritual part of Notscha, his soul fluttered about in the air, and was driven by the wind to the cave of the Great One.
Context: Changed, but the same, with ghastly looks and arms that were withered, she appeared to her sons as they returned from the hunt, in the twilight, in the close of the day. She was a terror to all their lives, and she made every spot where they had seen her, hideous to the living eye; so that after being long buffeted and beset, they at last resolved, together with their father, now stricken in years, to leave the country. The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! They now might well be in extreme fear, for they knew not how to escape her. Question: How will the sons and their father feel seeing the skull? Answer: terrified
Context: Finn followed, and on the threshold of the enchanted palace he found the body of Midna. That hole was twenty feet deep in the earth, and at the bottom of it there was a fire always from that night, and it was never extinguished. Question: Where did FInn find the body of Midna? Answer: on the threshold of the enchanted palace
Context: 'Oh, please don't do that,' cried both the girls, very frightened. The two girls, light of heart, now took their berries and ran off through the wood after the bird; and soon it began to get lighter in the wood and they wondered how they could have lost their way yesterday, it seemed so easy and plain now. Question: Why did the raspberry king forgive Otto? Answer: The girls begged him.
Context: 'It is ready, mistress,' whispered a queer little voice which made her jump, and, looking behind her, she saw a lovely palace made of the finest woods, and a row of slaves with tall fans bowing before the door. Here she stayed quietly, and every day the baby grew taller and stronger, and very soon he could run about and even talk. Question: What did the girl see after she told the ring that she wanted a house? Answer: a lovely palace
Context: If she found the rye bread too hard to bake, or the oven taking too long to heat, she just murmured, 'I should like to see my six loaves on the shelf above the bread box,' and two hours after there they were. If she was too lazy to walk all the way to market along a dirty road, she would say out loud the night before, 'Why am I not already back from Morlaix with my milk pot empty, my butter bowl inside it, a pound of wild cherries on my wooden plate, and the money I have gained in my apron pocket?' Question: After all, how did Barbaik begin to think of Jegu? Answer: She could no longer do without him.
Context: There was a witch woman in that country whose name was "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan." She knew, too, that with the coming of the new faith trouble would come upon the fairy folk, and their power and their great majesty would depart from them, and men would call them demons, and would drive them out with psalm-singing and with the saying of prayers, and with the sound of little tinkling bells. Question: How did the witch look in face and form? Answer: star-bright and beautiful
Context: yes,' said the miller, 'last night the wolves have eaten our fattest ram there by the kiln not far from here.' But, you see, Jonas, it might happen that one of them might bite me in the back, and I should have more trouble in killing them. Question: What did the wolves eat last night? Answer: their fattest ram
Context: There was once a little boy whose name was Lars, and because he was so little he was called Little Lasse; he was a brave little man, for he sailed round the world in a pea-shell boat. Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalks rose high above his cap, and he picked seventeen large shells, the longest and straightest he could find. Question: What did Lars pick in the garden? Answer: seventeen large shells
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: Where was Sentaro when he woke up? Answer: the shrine
Context: The next morning the giant got up very early, and went into the forest. And she picked the loveliest flowers she could find and strewed them over the threshold which they had put to rights again and when the time drew near for the giant's return, the king's son crept under the bed once more. Question: What did the prince and king's daughter do after the giant left? Answer: set about looking for the heart under the threshold of the door
Context: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep. And then he knew that the one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years, and he realised how heavy the punishment had been which the Wee Folk had laid upon him. Question: Why did the poor man's wife think he was a spirit at first? Answer: He did not come back for seven years.
Context: "Well, I suppose you have seen all sorts of beautiful things?" You must choose none among all the things you have seen," answered the prince, "but my father wears a ring on his little finger, and you must ask him for that." The youth thanked him most kindly, and the king and the prince wished him all manner of luck on his journey, and charged him to take the best care of the ring. Question: How will the youth manage to build the ship? Answer: wish for it
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: Why did the six sons chose the six daughters? Answer: They were beautiful.
Context: There was an old man living in the depth of a forest, with his grandson, whom he had taken in charge when quite an infant. There was an old tradition in the tribe, that, one day, it would produce a great man, who would wear a white feather, and who would astonish every one by his feats of skill and bravery. You will dream of hearing a voice, which will tell you to rise and smoke. While you are running, you will throw it over his head and entangle him, so that you will win the race." He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: Why did the young man demand revenge? Answer: His family was killed by giants.
Context: "Come hither, come hither," they shouted; "come tread a measure with us, and afterwards we will drink to thee out of our Monarch's loving cup." And, strange as it may seem, the spell that had been cast over the young Earl was so powerful that, in spite of his fear, he felt that he must obey the eldrich summons, and he threw his bridle on his horse's neck and prepared to join them. Question: Why did the old and grizzled Goblin talk to Earl Gregory? Answer: He was warning him to leave.
Context: The old man and woman at once set to work to pound rice in the kitchen mortar to make cakes for Momotaro to take with him on his journey. At last the cakes were made and Momotaro was ready to start on his long journey. Question: What were the cakes made out of? Answer: rice
Context: Scarcely had they done this when Jack threw open another door, and this time it led to a hall filled with silver. Jack lingered behind for a few minutes to put pieces of gold, silver, and copper into his pocket, and to eat the food that his brothers had thrown down in the first room. Question: What did the brothers find in the second and third halls? Answer: silver
Context: 'Yes, when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully,' said Lisa. Question: Why did the siblings make a fuss over a worm? Answer: It was on their raspberry.
Context: The princess replied that this could be arranged, and then she received the golden apple. But when the maiden came into the prince's room in the evening, he was sleeping soundly. Question: What was the prince doing when the maiden went to see him? Answer: sleeping soundly
Context: The gardener left the hamper by the garden gate, so that the carrier could pick it up when he passed. Timmy Willie crept in through a hole in the wicker-work, and after eating some peas-Timmy Willie fell fast asleep. Question: What did Timmy Willie do before falling asleep in the hamper? Answer: ate some peas
Context: No, indeed, he would be sure not to look in the basket, said he. But on the way, he kept wondering as to what might be in the basket, and willy-nilly--he could not keep from raising the cover a little, and looking through the crack. Question: What did the lizard do when the youth opened the basket? Answer: popped out of the crack, and ran across the road so quickly
Context: As he stood musing on this fairy spectacle, a strange noise came to his ear from a distance. Floating at a distance upon its waters sat a most beautiful Red Swan, whose plumage glittered in the sun, and when it lifted up its neck, it uttered the peculiar tone he had heard. Question: How will Maidwa feel about not being able to hunt the swan? Answer: angry
Context: When the dreams had sung their song they skipped away, and Nukku Matti carried Lasse back to the boat. The wind had turned, and the boat had drifted out with one wind and drifted in with another while Little Lasse slept, and what Lasse thought was frizzling in a frying-pan was the low murmur of the waves as they washed against the stones on the shore. Question: How did Little Lasse feel after he woke up? Answer: confused
Context: When Letiko had nearly reached her home the dog knew her, and called out, 'Bow wow! Question: What are the three animals that told the mother of Letiko's return? Answer: dog, cat, and cock
Context: Once upon a time there lived in France a man whose name was Jalm Riou. You might have walked a whole day without meeting anyone happier or more contented, for he had a large farm, plenty of money, and above all, a daughter called Barbaik, the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side. Question: How does the story describe Jaim Riou? Answer: He had a large farm, plenty of money, and above all, a daughter called Barbaik.
Context: And out of stones and sods of earth she fashioned three battalions, and one of the battalions she placed at one side of the house, and the other at the further side beyond it, and one encircling the rest southward along the hollow windings of the glen. And thus were these battalions, one of them all made of men stark-naked and their colour blue, and the second with heads of goats with shaggy beards and horned; but the third, more terrible than they, for these were headless men, fighting like human beings, yet finished at the neck; and the sound of heavy shouting as of hosts and multitudes came from the first and the second battalion, but from the third no sound save only that they waved their arms and struck their weapons together, and smote the ground with their feet impatiently. Question: Why was the third battalion the most terrible? Answer: These were headless men, fighting like human beings, yet finished at the neck.
Context: When the pancake heard that it was frightened, turned itself around suddenly, and wanted to get out of the pan. And it rolled off like a wheel, out of the door, and down the street. Question: Why was the pancake frightened? Answer: It did not want to be eaten.
Context: The king's daughter answered:  "Are you the troll who is coming to carry me away?" " She complied with his request, and Silverwhite laid his head in her lap. Question: What did the princess do while combing Silverwhite's hair? Answer: drew a golden ring from her finger and wound it into his locks
Context: Once his grandson Dschang Dau Ling went to Kunlun Mountain, in order to visit the Queen Mother of the West. Dschang Dau Ling gained power over demons and spirits, and became the first Taoist pope. Question: Where did Dschang Dau go to visit the Queen Mother of the West? Answer: Kunlun Mountain
Context: Now he will have work enough to last him a lifetime," thought the king. The enemy shot at him as hard as they could, but their bullets did not touch him. Question: What happened when the enemy shot at Aspenclog? Answer: The bullets did not touch him.
Context: Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Indeed, they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro. Question: What did Shiro look like? Answer: a small wolf
Context: Their next business was to set the household in order, and this, with the judicious direction of Gray Eagle, who was propped up in a snug fork, with soft cushions of dry moss, they speedily accomplished. The second brother was assigned the duty of physician, and he was to prescribe such herbs and other medicines as the state of the health of Gray Eagle seemed to require. Question: Who was assigned the duty of physician? Answer: the second brother
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. The youth was growing, and he wanted so much to eat that it was barely possible to find it. She told her son that it was the highest time for him to take service, and really do something, or else both of them would have to starve to death. Question: What will the youth want to do instead of taking service? Answer: go to the mother in the corner
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: How did Setanta feel when he was told about the great school? Answer: delighted
Context: Her elder sisters were all sought in marriage, and one after the other they went off to dwell in the lodges of their husbands; but Oweenee was deaf to all proposals of the kind. Though thus poor and homely, Osseo was a devout and good man; faithful in all his duties, and obedient in all things to the Good Spirit. Question: Why did people make a special mock of the walking-staff? Answer: It was the only thing Osseo owned.
Context: It seemed to him that he had almost reached it when his foot tripped. He fell down, down, down, into a Fairy Parlour, far under the ground. Question: Where did Farquhar fall into? Answer: a Fairy Parlour
Context: Nearly two thousand years ago this sword was kept at the shrines of Ite, the temples dedicated to the worship of Amaterasu, the great and beautiful Sun Goddess from whom the Japanese Emperors are said to be descended. There is a story of knightly adventure and daring which explains why the name of the sword was changed from that of Murakumo to Kasanagi, which means grass clearing. Question: Who were the Japanese Emperors said to be descendants of? Answer: Amaterasu
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: What did Tom do after he pulled out his flute? Answer: He began to play like vengeance.
Context: But just as she entered the church and took the hand of the bridegroom, who was waiting for her, a loud noise was heard. and the wedding garments fell to the ground, to the great confusion of the wearer. Question: Why did one of the guests stay behind? Answer: to examine the dress, determined, if she could, to find out the cause of the disaster
Context: So they chatted awhile together, and together waded through the stream. I am the head constable of the Nether World, and am subject to the Lord of the Great Mountain. Question: Who was the head constable of the Nether World, and am subject to the Lord of the Great Mountain? Answer: the stranger
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. She got used to find him absent by day, and they spent a happy twelvemonth together, and at last a beautiful little boy was born; and happy as she was before, she was twice as happy now, for she had her child to keep her company in the day when she couldn't see her husband. Then she thought to herself she'd have a sharp eye about her this time; so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inches open. Question: Why did the youngest princess's husband disappear when she woke up? Answer: He turned into a bear during the day.
Context: She was frightened, and wanted to throw the red shoes away; but they stuck fast. She tore off her stockings, but the shoes had grown fast to her feet. Question: Who did Karen see as she danced past the open church door? Answer: an angel
Context: An old couple once lived in a hut under a grove of palm trees, and they had one son and one daughter. 'Your property, certainly,' answered the son, and his father nodded. Question: Why did the father lay on the floor? Answer: No one had any beds in that country.
Context: After a time he lay down on his back, and prepared to go to sleep. But just then the ring slipped down his throat, and he had to cough, so that the ring flew out and rolled along the ground. Question: What happened when the cat felt the water? Answer: She grew afraid, let the ring fall, and swam to land.
Context: There was no one in sight, but Aggo heard the words quite plainly, and as he suspected the ditty to be the work of his enemies, the buffalos, he hopped home as fast as his one leg could carry him. She accordingly ascended the roof and busied herself in untying and combing her beautiful hair; for it was truly beautiful, not only of a fine, glossy quality, but it was so very long that it hung over the eaves of the house and reached down on the ground, as she sat dressing it. Question: What will the daughter do since she does not want to be kept in doors? Answer: get on top of the house and comb and dress her hair
Context: Watanabe's eyes grew large with wonder, for he saw that the ogre was taller than the great gate, his eyes were flashing like mirrors in the sunlight, and his huge mouth was wide open, and as the monster breathed, flames of fire shot out of his mouth. But Watanabe, determined not to let the monster escape, put spurs to his horse and gave chase. Question: What happened because the ogre found that he could neither frighten nor beat Watanabe? Answer: The ogre took to flight.
Context: When the king's daughter and her maid saw the old woman, who was sitting beneath the window, they felt a great longing to try the beautiful apples. The princess and her maid, in all innocence, did as the troll-woman told them, and each received an apple. Question: What happened when the king's daughter and her maid saw the old woman? Answer: They felt a great longing to try the beautiful apples.
Context: "I will wait with you one night longer," said the Swallow, who really had a good heart. So the Swallow plucked out the Prince's eye, and flew away to the student's garret. Question: Why did the young man not hear the flutter of the Swallow's wings? Answer: The young man his head buried in his hands.
Context: And the second road was as different from the first as it well could be. It was a bonnie, bonnie road, winding up a hillside among brackens, and heather, and golden-yellow whins, and it looked as if it would be pleasant travelling, to pass that way. Question: Why did folks regret choosing the first road? Answer: It leads to a bad end.
Context: I will see whether I can get them back for you," said his comrade, and went down into the stable. When she came, she anointed the goat with a salve she carried in a great horn, and cried out: "Up, up! Question: What was special about the enormous goat? Answer: fly through the air more swiftly than he could walk on level ground
Context: He was so lazy and slow that there was not a single blessed useful thing he would do. But he liked to sing and to dance, and that is what he did all day long, and far into the night as well. Question: What happened to the son's clothes when he skipped and danced? Answer: ripped
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What happened after twenty-nine of the ducks put on their white garments? Answer: They instantly turned into so many beautiful maidens.
Context: Once upon a time a man named Hu-Wu-Bau, who lived near the Great Mountain, went walking there one day. The latter had a meal prepared for him and said: "I only sent for you to-day because I had heard you intended traveling to the West. Question: Where did Hu-Wu-Bau find himself after he opened his eyes? Answer: a lofty palace
Context: "Do not grieve about that," said the gentleman, and gave him a large, large hornets' nest, full of hornets, who flew out in swarms and stung any one whom they were told to sting, until one said "stop!" She begged the peasant to please call back his hornets, and said she was only too willing to give back the rooster and the mill she had taken. Question: What was the old woman willing to give back to the peasant when being attacked by the hornets? Answer: the rooster and the mill
Context: Now, when Farquhar had been in his mortal state, he had been very fond of children. For scarce had the Holy Name crossed his lips than the spell which had held him so long was broken. Question: What did Farquhar think about when the spell was broken? Answer: his friends at home, and to the new Mistress whom he had left waiting for her sieve
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Why did Murtough remain a pagan? Answer: He was a wild and lawless prince.
Context: Then they gave her food and drink, and led her to a beautifully made bed of silk and samite, on which she lay down and slept soundly. When the day dawned she arose, and the old toad gave her three things out of the huge chest to take with her. Question: What did the Princess need to do to find her lover? Answer: cross a high glass mountain, three cutting swords, and a great lake
Context: Then off went the wolf to a shop and bought a big lump of chalk, and ate it up to make his voice soft. But the wolf had put up his black paws against the window, and the kids seeing this, cried out,  "We will not open the door; our mother has no black paws like you; you must be the wolf." Question: Why did the little goats not open the door? Answer: Their mother has no black paws like the wolf.
Context: Maidwa seeing that no preparation had been made to entertain the company, said, "Are we to have no supper?" To draw to a close, Maidwa and his friends lived in peace for a time; their town prospered; there was no lack of children; and every thing else was in abundance. Question: Who prepared the supper? Answer: the kettles
Context: There they stood, looking towards the bridge of Thuar, in the dead of the night, with a little moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid. He looked, but could see nothing; and she stood trembling and her eyes wide open, looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola. " Question: How did the neighbor feel after she saw the poor man's wife coming? Answer: surprised
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: Who did the devil meet? Answer: Kitta Grau
Context: In a moment the Princess Hyacinthia had changed herself, the Prince, and his charger into a thick wood where a thousand paths and roads crossed each other. Prince Milan loosened from his neck the little gold cross his mother had given him, and as soon as Hyacinthia grasped it, she had changed herself into a church, Milan into a monk, and the horse into a belfry. Question: What did the monk say the Prince and Hyacynthia did at the church? Answer: have just gone on this minute; they stopped for a few minutes in the church to say their prayers, and bade the monk light this wax candle for the Magician, and give the Magician their love
Context: While all this was taking place the monkey was congratulating himself (as the wicked often do before their punishment comes upon them) on all he had done so neatly. He found this kind of life, however, extremely dull, accustomed as he was to the free life of the woods, and at last he said:  "No one knows that it was I who killed the crab! Question: Why did the monkey think he would not be found? Answer: He had escaped unseen.
Context: When his master came home that evening the lad was in the house before him. On the next day, when the gentleman was gone, he went to the caher of the giants, and he took with him another steed and another suit and the sword of the third giant, and when he came to fight with the dragon the people thought it was another champion who was in it. Question: What happened after the lad called for the black thong? Answer: The black thong leapt away, and bound the dragon.
Context: "Yes, here they are," said the youth; and he flung them on the table so that they rang. But if you cannot give it to me then, you must die, according to the law." The comrade once more put on his Three-Sisters Hat, and waited until the princess came with the horn of ointment and anointed the goat. Question: What will the princess give the troll? Answer: the ball of gold twine
Context: As midnight drew nigh, he heard far away in the north, out of the mountains of Slieve Gullion, a fairy tune played, soft, low, and slow, as if on a silver flute; and at the same time the roar of Conn the Hundred-Fighter, and the voice of Gaul like thunder, and the responsive shouts of the captains, and the clamour of the host, for the host shouted all together, and clashed their swords against their shields in fierce defiance, when in spite of all obstructions the fairy music of the enchanter began to steal into their souls. Then the roar of the host slowly faded away as in a dream, though the captains were still shouting, and two-thirds of the torches fell to the ground. Question: Who reeled and tottered and strove in vain to keep his feet? Answer: Conn the Hundred-Fighter
Context: Once upon a time there were three little kittens, and their names were Mittens, Tom Kitten, and Moppet. They had dear little fur coats of their own; and they tumbled about the doorstep and played in the dust. Question: Why did the kitten's mother fetch them inside? Answer: Mrs. Tabitha Twitchwit expected friends to tea.
Context: The fish swam to and fro, making the most wonderful movements, but at last he became quite still. She picked up the soldier and held him by the waist between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the room. Question: What did the cook do when she found the soldier? Answer: carried him into the room
Context: Once upon a time there lived in France a man whose name was Jalm Riou. You might have walked a whole day without meeting anyone happier or more contented, for he had a large farm, plenty of money, and above all, a daughter called Barbaik, the most graceful dancer and the best-dressed girl in the whole country side. Question: Where did Jaim Riou live? Answer: france
Context: Now one of these young men had a bad and spiteful disposition. But as the wind blew and dried him, his skin became drawn and hardened, and the salt increased the pain so much that he rolled on the sand in his agony and cried aloud. Question: How did the hare feel when he was tricked by the young man? Answer: agony
Context: You may be sure no other body went near it; and when the early risers were passing next morning they found two long clefts in the stone where it was, after burning itself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. Well, I suppose before they were married Gilla got some man like Pat Mara of Tomenine to larn him the "principles of politeness," fluxions, gunnery, and fortifications, decimal fractions, practice, and the rule-of-three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up a conversation with the royal family. Question: Why did the Danes' ship sail away? Answer: They heard of the flail coming into Dublin.
Context: And the sister wept over her poor lost brother, and the fawn wept also, and stayed sadly beside her. And when they had gone a long long way, they came at last to a little house, and the maiden looked inside, and as it was empty she thought,  "We might as well live here." Question: What did the sister tie around the fawn's neck? Answer: her golden girdle
Context: Just as I was falling asleep last night, I heard a horse's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door, and there, when I came out, was a fine-looking dark man, mounted on a black horse, and he told me to get ready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. The lady clapped her hands, and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and the baby, and praised me, and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over. Question: Why did the fine-looking dark man want the neighbor to come out? Answer: A lady was in great want of her.
Context: After they were covered up, the boy-man, looking sharply about, saw that among them they had caught one large trout, which was lying just by their side. When they stood up they could just see, over the fish's head, that it was the boy-man who was carrying it off. Question: Why did the four men think their fish was running away on dry land? Answer: The boy being so small could not be distinguished from the fish.
Context: They traveled slowly, and looked with double joy on the beautiful country over which they had both so lately passed with hearts ill at ease. On the following morning, when they were about to start, he pulled from the side of the lodge a bag, which he presented to Maidwa, saying, "Grandchild, I give you this; it contains a present for you; and I hope you will live happily till old age." Question: What did the old men each give Maidwa? Answer: a present
Context: In Balbo, nine miles from Rude, dwelt another hero, Bale, a good friend and companion-at-arms of Starkad. One morning Starkad climbed the Klefberg in Tuna, and called over to Bale: "Bale in Balbo, are you awake?" Question: Where did Bale live? Answer: Balbo
Context: Once, when the wicked Emperor Tsin Schi Huang had conquered all the other kingdoms, and was traveling through the entire empire, he came to the homeland of Confucius. All his officials advised him not to do so, but he would not listen to them. Question: Who had conquered all the other kingdoms, and was traveling through the entire empire? Answer: Emperor Tsin Schi Huang
Context: So he gave up the fowl and received the apples, which he carried into the inn parlor. The Englishmen were so rich that their pockets bulged and seemed ready to burst; and they could bet too, as you shall hear. Question: What kind of guests were present at the inn parlor? Answer: horse dealers, cattle-drovers, two Englishmen
Context: My trousseau is not quite complete, but by the time you come again all shall be ready." But it looked to the youth like food that had been eaten, and he said that he had no appetite. " Question: When would all be ready according to the rat? Answer: by the time the youth came again
Context: Prince Yamato Take at once offered to go and bring the newly arisen rebels into subjection. When the time came for the Prince to start, the King gave him a spear called the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree (the handle was probably made from the wood of the holly tree), and ordered him to set out to subjugate the Eastern Barbarians as the Ainu were then called. Question: Why did the King have to send his son? Answer: There was no warrior so strong or so brave as the prince.
Context: Great indeed was Hase-Hime's fear and astonishment when her father sent for her and told her what was required of her. Heavy, indeed, was the duty that was laid on her young shoulders-that of saving the Emperor's life by the merit of her verse. Question: Why was Hase-Hime afraid when she heard what was required of her? Answer: Heavy was the duty that was laid on her young shoulders.
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: Why did Thomas, the snow-white Hard, and Hind disappear in the river's foaming waters? Answer: They went to Fairy-land.
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: Who had a beautiful daughter? Answer: Aggo Dah Gauda
Context: Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife, who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. At first the girl told him that so few were left that she could not spare any; but when she found that he belonged to her brother, she changed her mind, and went out to the tree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there. Question: Why didn't the girl give another pumpkin to the brother's wife? Answer: They were all eaten.
Context: The dog went out the same day hunting upon the banks of a river. The next day the giant followed the dog, and hiding behind a tree, he watched the manner in which the dog hunted in the river when he drew out a stone, which at once turned into a beaver. Every day the youngest sister had reason to be more proud of the poor dog she had asked into her lodge, and every day the eldest sister was made more aware, that though she had married the white feather, the virtues of the magic plume were not the personal property of the noisy giant. Question: Why did the giant's hunts come back as objects and not animals? Answer: The giant was not the White Feather.
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: Who was the son of Art? Answer: Cormac
Context: They hoped that his shining qualities would draw back the thoughts of Leelinau from that spirit-land whither she seemed to have wholly directed her affections. It was this chief's son whom Iagoo had pictured as the corn-taker, but, without objecting to his age, or giving any other reason, Leelinau firmly declined his proposals. Question: What did Leelinau's parents hope the eldest son of a neighboring chief would do to Leelinau? Answer: hoped he would draw back the thoughts of Leelinau from that spirit-land
Context: While these things were passing, there were living in an Indian village at some distance, two sisters, the daughters of a chief, who were rivals, and they were at that very time fasting to acquire power, for the purpose of enticing the wearer of the white feather to visit their lodge. The eldest sister had prepared her lodge with great show, and all the finery she could command, so as to attract the eye. Question: Who wanted to win White Feather's affections? Answer: two sisters
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: Why was the younger brother very pleased at the thought of becoming such a rich man? Answer: The brothers had never cared much for each other.
Context: Then they took counsel together, and watched her to see what she did. Then she threw herself on her knees by the edge, and peered into the dark water, but the trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it. Question: How did the sisters feel after they noticed their youngest sister grew weaker? Answer: concerned
Context: Owing to his lack of strength, Bokwewa never engaged in the chase, but gave his attention entirely to the affairs of the lodge. In the long winter evenings he passed the time in telling his brother stories of the giants, spirits, weendigoes, and fairies of the elder age, when they had the exclusive charge of the world. Question: Why was Bokwewa never engaged in the chase? Answer: had a lack of strength
Context: Thus Kintaro's fate was settled, and the general decided to start for the Capital at once, taking Kintaro with him. When they learned that he was going away for good they followed him to the foot of the mountain to see him off. Question: What did Kintaro promise to do? Answer: never forget her
Context: When they reached the seashore at Idzu his men sought for boats in which to cross the straits to Kadzusa, but it was difficult to find boats enough to allow all the soldiers to embark. The waves rose mountains high, the wind howled, the lightning flashed and the thunder rolled, and the boat which held Ototachibana and the Prince and his men was tossed from crest to crest of the rolling waves, till it seemed that every moment must be their last and that they must all be swallowed up in the angry sea. Question: What happened because Kin Jin heard the words of Yamato? Answer: raised this terrible storm in anger
Context: Directly ahead of him lay a field of barley, with ears so large and heavy that he had never seen their like. Through the barley-field a narrow path led to a green turf-roofed cottage of clay, that rose above the field. Question: Where did the narrow path lead to? Answer: a green turf-roofed cottage of clay that rose above the field
Context: Once upon a time, long, long years ago, there lived a well-to-do old couple on a homestead up in Hadeland. And whoever else had business in the woods at that time, noticed that the mountain folk had carried on its tricks with their herd. Question: Where did the old couple live? Answer: on a homestead up in Hadeland
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: What happened after the Abbot's prayers were said? Answer: The Abbot hearken'd awhile to a little bird that sung above his head.
Context: When he was about thirty years old, news was brought that the Ainu race, the aborigines of the islands of Japan, who had been conquered and pushed northwards by the Japanese, had rebelled in the Eastern provinces, and leaving the vicinity which had been allotted to them were causing great trouble in the land. The King decided that it was necessary to send an army to do battle with them and bring them to reason. Question: Who caused trouble in the land? Answer: the Ainu race
Context: "Indeed I will," answered the sheep, "for you are always kind and have a pleasant word for me. "Very well," answered the master; "if you can grow three bags full I will give one to the little boy." Question: Why did the Black Sheep want to keep one bag of wool? Answer: to give it to the little boy that lives in the lane
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: What happened after the sun increased? Answer: The old man grew less and less in stature, and presently he had melted completely away.
Context: Then a little Frog, with bright jewelled eyes, and a green mottled coat, swam up to him. I am sure I hope so, but the sky is quite blue and cloudless. Question: Who did the Rocket meet after falling into the mud? Answer: a little frog
Context: He wanted to become one by Easter, and to marry, and to live by poetry. To write poems, he knew, only consists in being able to invent something. Question: What was the young man studying to be? Answer: a poet
Context: But a year later, just as the term he had set was up, he was working on a house, for during the school vacation he busied himself either with fishing or carpentering. That very moment the pastor's daughter from underground vanished; but immediately after he cut himself in the knee with the ax in such wise that he remained a cripple for life. Question: What was the schoolmaster doing just as the term he had set was up? Answer: working on a house
Context: The dog went out the same day hunting upon the banks of a river. When he reached home he threw it down, as is the custom, at the door of the lodge before he entered. Question: Where did the dog go hunting? Answer: the banks of a river
Context: When the fifth day of the eight had passed, it was plain to her that there was a child in the egg, which kept on calling: "Herring and mush, porridge and milk," and so she punched a hole in the egg. It was quite disgustingly homely, with a big head and a small body. Question: Why was the child named Murmur Goose-Egg? Answer: The child came from a goose-egg.
Context: There was a trembling in the poor creature's hand, and he was not able to cut a piece at all off the bull, after his feeding him for so long, and after the kindness he had got from him. "I'm as good a herd as ever you saw, but I'll not tell you a lie--I can do nothing but herding; but, indeed, I'll do that as well as any man that ever you saw." Question: Who did the son meet on the road? Answer: a gentleman
Context: And catching hold of Shiro's neck he held the dog's head to the ground, so that Shiro began to scratch and dig in order to free himself from the horrid old man's grasp. As he went on digging a foul smell was noticeable, and he at last came upon a refuse heap. Question: Why was the old man pleased at Shiro's scratching and digging? Answer: He at once supposed that some gold coins lay buried under his tree.
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What did the Prince tell his father to give him? Answer: a horse
Context: Quite unlike other boys, Kintaro, grew up all alone in the mountain wilds. By degrees they all grew quite tame and looked upon Kintaro as their master, and he used them as his servants and messengers. Question: Why did the animals act as servants and messengers? Answer: they looked upon Kintaro as their master
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: Where did the son go to throw apples and fruits to the pigs? Answer: into a tree
Context: Scarcely had they done this when Jack threw open another door, and this time it led to a hall filled with silver. Jack lingered behind for a few minutes to put pieces of gold, silver, and copper into his pocket, and to eat the food that his brothers had thrown down in the first room. Question: What did Jack do after his brothers left the castle? Answer: put pieces of gold, silver, and copper into his pocket, and ate the food that his brothers had thrown down in the first room.
Context: One day, soon after this, the old man heard some one knocking at his door. This Knight told him that he was a retainer of a great Daimio (Earl). Question: Who knocked on the old man's door? Answer: a Knight
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: What happened after the dragon came out of the sea? Answer: The lad went against him, and they fought with one another.
Context: After they were covered up, the boy-man, looking sharply about, saw that among them they had caught one large trout, which was lying just by their side. When they stood up they could just see, over the fish's head, that it was the boy-man who was carrying it off. Question: Why did the sister suspect the boy stole the fish? Answer: The boy was playing with the ball.
Context: On one side, sitting among the cinders, with his face blackened, and crying aloud, was his elder brother. On the other side sat the younger, Jeekewis, also with blackened face, his head covered with stray feathers and tufts of swan-down. As soon as Jeekewis heard a wife spoken of, he roused from his torpor, sprang to his feet, and said:  "Why is it just now that you have come?" Jeekewis scampered about, and began to wash himself; but he would every now and then, with one side of his head all feathers, and the other clear and shining, peep forth to look at the women again. Question: How will the brothers feel about Maidwa giving them wives? Answer: thankful
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: Why did the younger brother do what his wife wished? Answer: She lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death.
Context: When he arrived in the neighbourhood everything seemed strange. Worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles. Question: Why was Farquhar in great distress? Answer: He could not find his way to the farm, and, worst of all, in the place where he expected to find his father's house he found nothing but a crop of rank green nettles.
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. Question: Who was Finn's wife? Answer: Oonagh
Context: The guests all grew pale with terror when they heard the news. Then she gave me two chargers, a suit of golden armor, and the insignia of a commander-in-chief, and bowed to me. Question: Why was Tschauna approaching in great force, careless and unconcerned? Answer: The enemy was intoxicated by his former victories.
Context: "How," the sister asked again, "could you have got it there?" It was as much as the girl could do to drag the great trout within doors. Question: Where did the boy say he found the fish? Answer: on the ice
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: Why couldn't the seal catcher complete the order by that evening? Answer: The seals would not come back to the rocks again until tomorrow morning.
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: What happened after the mare spoke to Morraha? Answer: He gave her the sixpenny loaf toasted and a bottle of ale to drink.
Context: 'I'd like to wring their necks,' said the magician, and made all haste home, where he had every one of his servants beaten to within an inch of their lives. We'll only go and look at what's to be seen in the town for about an hour, and then we'll continue our journey to my father's kingdom.' Question: How did Hyacinthia feel when the Prince told her he wanted to visit the town? Answer: frightened
Context: 'Oh, nothing; I did not feel inclined to talk, that was all!' 'I would rather die than not know what is in that tureen,' she burst forth so violently that the husband was quite startled. Question: What did the wife suggest after her husband refused to lift the lid? Answer: Just raise one corner so that she may peep.
Context: I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said the cat, and seized the weasel and ate him up. Question: How many people had the cat eaten so far? Answer: three
Context: Said the other: "In your district there lives a certain Wang, who was formerly superintendent of the granaries, and at that time caused the death of an officer. The King of the Nether World cannot come to a decision in the case, and therefore has asked the Lord of the Great Mountain to settle it. Question: Why did the King of the Nether World ask the Lord of the Great Mountain to settle it? Answer: The King of the Nether World could no come to a decision in the case.
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: What will the giant do if Tom spares his life? Answer: He'll give him that club.
Context: To this sacred spot Leelinau had made her way at an early age, gathering strange flowers and plants, which she would bring home to her parents, and relate to them all the haps and mishaps that had occurred in her rambles. If her father remained abroad in the hunt later than usual, and it was feared that he had been overwhelmed by the tempest, or had met with some other mischance, Leelinau offered up her prayers for safety at the Manitowok. Question: How did Leelinau's attachment to the fairy wood grow? Answer: visited the fairy wood often
Context: "If you'll give me your youngest daughter, I will make you just as rich as now you are poor," said the bear. Question: What did the bear want from the man? Answer: His youngest daughter
Context: how sorry Little Lasse was now that he had been disobedient and got into the boat, when father and mother had so often forbidden him to do so! He heard the low words which Little Lasse said to God, and he immediately drew the boat to himself and laid Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rose leaves. Question: How did Little Lasse feel after he was lost out on the great sea? Answer: scared
Context: Sure enough the roly-poly noise was still going on quite distinctly under the attic floor. He looked about for a nice convenient place, and he fixed upon the chimney. Question: Why did Tom Kitten hide? Answer: He did not want to be shut up in a cupboard.
Context: When he came to the Yellow River on his journey, he did what the Lord of the Great Mountain had told him, and cried: "Greencoat!" I have nothing to give you, however, save this pair of green silk shoes. In a moment the red-clad messenger appeared and led him to the Lord of the Mountain. Question: What will the Lord of the Great Mountain do after Hu-Wu-Bau delivers the letter? Answer: thank him
Context: In the land of the four rivers there dwelt a man who was very rich. Then the girl got out again and said in farewell: "You are truly a good and honest man, and for that reason I must tell you the truth. Question: What did the man do after the girl begged him to take her with him? Answer: allowed her to get into the wagon, and drove along for half-a-day without even looking in her direction
Context: At this moment the wind came rushing round the corner of the street and through the air-holes of the old lamp. " I will blow into your brain, so that in future not only shall you be able to remember all that you have seen or heard in the past, but your light within shall be so bright that you will be able to understand all that is said or done in your presence." " Question: Who came rushing around the corner? Answer: the wind
Context: Maidwa's pack for traveling was now ready, and he was taking his farewell smoke, when the young magician thus addressed him: "My friend Maidwa, you know for what cause you came thus far, and why you have risked so much and waited so long. My destiny compels me to remain where I am, although I should feel happy to be allowed to go with you. The old man, nevertheless, received them very kindly, and said to Maidwa, "You see what your perseverance has secured you; do so always, and you will succeed in whatever you undertake." Nor did Maidwa see any thing here of the frisky little kettle which had been so lively on his former visit. Question: What did Maidwa notice was missing when he visited the old men's lodges? Answer: the kettle
Context: The butchers were sent for, and they were ready to kill the bracket bull as soon as he came in. The next day, when the lad was herding the cows on the mountain, the bracket bull came and said to him, "Take the horn off me and eat your enough now. Question: Who did the bracket bull say would end him? Answer: another bull
Context: One day Isaac had put out a few miles to sea to fish, when suddenly a dark fog fell. Then he began to realize that either he was steering out to sea, or that the wind had veered, and at last he made sure the latter was the case. Question: What happened because of the tremendous storm? Answer: Isaac had to throw all his fish overboard in order to lighten ship and save his life.
Context: One beautiful bright morning, as he was hauling his well-filled nets into the boat, he saw lying among the fishes a tiny little turtle. Now Uraschimataro was very good-natured, and besides, he could never bear to say no, so he picked up the turtle, and put it back into the sea. Question: What did Uraschimataro do when the turtle trembingly begged for its life? Answer: picked up the turtle, and put it back into the sea
Context: When next time came, Hans's mother said,  "Where are you going, Hans?" So Grethel gave Hans a knife, and then he said, "Good-bye, Grethel," and she said, "Good-bye, Hans." Question: Where did Hans go after taking the knife? Answer: home
Context: Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. Question: Why did the monkey think he was not fairly beaten? Answer: His foot slipped and he tumbled.
Context: The little Pigeon-Hawk followed closely, with the duck under his wing, rejoiced and happy to think that he had something to carry home at last. The next day, betimes, in the morning, before the household had fairly rubbed the cobwebs out of the corners of their eyes, there came a knock at the front door--which was a dry branch that lay down before the hollow of the tree in which they lodged--and being called to come in, who should make their appearance but the two nest-mates, who had just returned from the South, where they had been wintering. Question: Why did Gray Eagle dismiss White Owl? Answer: forgave White Owl
Context: When they grew tired of this, they told each other stories of all their exploits of which they were proud, and then played games together; and Momotaro found much to amuse him in listening to the three animals and watching their antics, and in this way he forgot that the way was long and that he was tired of the voyage and of doing nothing. He longed to be at work killing the monsters who had done so much harm in his country. Question: What types of stories did the animals tell each other? Answer: exploits of which they were proud
Context: "Tell me what it is," said the seal catcher, "and I will do it, if it lies within my power." "I have no skill in the art of healing," said the seal catcher, astonished at the forbearance of these strange creatures, whom he had so unwittingly wronged; "but I will bind up the wound to the best of my power, and I am only sorry that it was my hands that caused it." Question: Who was lying on a bed of pale pink sea-weed, with a gaping wound in his side? Answer: the guide's father
Context: He, to his horror, recognised his own hunting knife with which he had struck the seal in the morning, and which had been carried off by the wounded animal. They implored him not to put himself about, for no harm would befall him, and they would love him all their lives long if he would only do what they asked him. Question: What did the seal catcher do after he saw the knife? Answer: fell upon his face and begged for mercy
Context: For many days life went on like a beautiful dream to the charcoal-burner and his wife. But when his eyes rested on the woman, they took on a look which seemed to say 'I knew it,' though this neither the charcoal-burner nor his wife ever noticed. Question: Why did the couple feel like they were living in a beautiful dream? Answer: They got everything they wanted at the palace.
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: What did Setanta do after crossing the frontier? Answer: He then lay down to rest and sleep in a wood.
Context: At the close of this busy day, when the Old Spirit came in very much out of breath, he said to Wassamo, "Son-in-law, I am in want of tobacco. Other gifts beside tobacco came in the same way to the side of the lodge--sometimes a whole bear, then a wampum-robe, then a string of birds--and the Sand-Spirits altogether led an easy life; for they were not at the trouble to hunt or clothe themselves; and whenever the housekeeping began to fall short, nothing would happen but a wonderful storm of dust, all the sand-hills being straightway put in an uproar, and the contributions would at once begin to pour in at the side windows of the lodge, till all their wants were supplied. Question: What did the Old Spirit want from Wassamo? Answer: tobacco
Context: When at last Maidwa was about to leave, he invited a number of the families of the chief to go with him and visit their hunting-grounds, where he promised them that they would find game in abundance. When ready to return, the chief made a speech and besought the blessing of the Good Spirit on Maidwa and his friends. Question: What did Maidwa and his friends come in sight of after several days' travel? Answer: his home
Context: In this fashion the two friends provided themselves with all the game to be found in the woods and in the water, and spread terror and destruction throughout the countryside. They hurried along as fast as they could; but got no further than Vattjom, where a flash of lightning struck Starkad and flung him to the ground. Question: How did Starkard and Bale feel about their friendship? Answer: happy
Context: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep. And then he knew that the one day he had passed in Fairy-land had lasted seven whole years, and he realised how heavy the punishment had been which the Wee Folk had laid upon him. Question: Why did the poor man believe only a day had passed? Answer: His can of milk was standing on the green, just where he had laid it down when he went to sleep.
Context: On board a steamer I once met an elderly man, with such a merry face that, if it was really an index of his mind, he must have been the happiest fellow in creation. He had all his company with him in a large box, for he was the proprietor of a puppet-show. Question: what were they onboard of? Answer: a steamer
Context: The little old woman who makes war was in an excellent humor, and she received Strong Desire with rejoicing. She admired his prudence, and assured him his bravery should never be questioned again. Question: Who required an offering or sacrifice from all of her sons who performed extraordinary deeds? Answer: Maunkahkeesh, the Spirit of the Earth
Context: So he took pen and ink and wrote something, and when he had done Jack my Hedgehog pointed out the way and the King got safely home. Then the King remembered Jack my Hedgehog, and he told his daughter how he had been obliged to give a written promise to bestow whatever he first met when he got home on an extraordinary creature which had shown him the way. Question: What happened after the King's daughter saw her father? Answer: She ran to meet him and threw herself into his arms.
Context: The next day the hunter accordingly went into the woods, and his son, calling the boy from the tree, urged him to go with him to kill the squirrels. The children were never parted from each other; and when the hunter looked upon the strange boy, he seemed to see living in him the better spirit of his lost wife. Question: What did the hunter see whenever he looked at the strange boy? Answer: the better spirit of his lost wife
Context: And so it did, for very soon the poor brother reached the place, bespattered with mud from head to foot, but ready to do all he could to help with the mule and his master. When he saw this the muleteer's anger knew no bounds, and forgetting that without the help given him he would have lost his mule altogether, he began to abuse the poor man, declaring that he had ruined his beast, and the law would make him pay for it. Question: Why did the muleteer and the elder brother set about finding some sout logs of wood? Answer: His frantic struggles had broken his bridle, and he was deeper in than ever.
Context: The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. This he purposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when he expected to meet the third robber Takeru. Question: Why did the Prince befriend Idzumo Takeru? Answer: to kill him
Context: The robin and the blue-bird began to sing on the top of the lodge. When he looked upon him he had the visage of Peboan, the icy old Winter-Spirit. Question: What did the young man do so that warm showers of soft rain fall upon the earth? Answer: shook his ringlets
Context: There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow. When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was no wife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become of their mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men and women, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in the middle of them, going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep. Question: Why was the wife sorry the whole day after she was late to Mass? Answer: Her husband was in grief about it.
Context: When he came to the devil's place, there stood a man out by the wood-pile making wood. The peasant went to him and asked whether he could tell him if they wanted to buy a pig in the devil's place. " Question: What did the peasant gladly agree to do? Answer: make wood in the man's stead while he was gone
Context: Karen believed that this was all on account of the red shoes, but the old lady thought them hideous, and so they were burnt. One day the Queen was travelling through that part of the country, and had her little daughter, who was a princess, with her. Question: Who was travelling through that part of the country? Answer: the Queen
Context: She thus followed in the pursuit, from valley to valley, and stream to stream, for many months and years; when she came at length to the lodge of the last of the friendly old grandmothers, as they were called, who gave her the last instructions how to proceed. These directions the young woman followed just as they had been given to her, and in a short time she heard her son, now grown up, going out to hunt, with his dog, calling out to him, "Peewaubik--Spirit-Iron--Twee! Question: Who gave the mother the last instructions on how to proceed? Answer: the friendly old grandmothers
Context: At last he came to a tiny box, and in the tiny box was a slip of paper--and that was all he had for his pains! But all at once, he saw that something was written on the piece of paper, and on closer examination he was even able to spell out the words, though they had a strange appearance. Question: How did the duke feel when he first saw the slip of paper? Answer: depressed
Context: "I think I ought to have had some consideration too," said the swallow. " Yes, that is your misfortune," said the fence-rail; "you are so fickle, so unsettled; you must always be travelling about into foreign lands when the cold commences here. Question: Why doesn't the fence-rail consider the swallow? Answer: because the swallow flies too much
Context: His ordinary customers, knowing this, took care always to provide him with something to drink. He was feeling sure that his mysterious friend must live somewhere in the neighbourhood. Question: Why did Canobie Dick want to go home with the stranger? Answer: He wanted to have refreshments.
Context: After they had again wandered on for a few days, the comrade said: "Now we will soon reach the castle in which she lives, the princess of whom you dreamed, and when we reach it, you must go to the castle and tell the king what you dreamed, and your journey's aim." He told her, too, why he was there, and she replied that she liked him quite well, and would gladly take him, but first he must undergo three tests. Question: What was the first test given to the youth? Answer: take the shears and keep them and give them back to the princess to-morrow at noon
Context: When his master came home that evening the lad was in the house before him. On the next day, when the gentleman was gone, he went to the caher of the giants, and he took with him another steed and another suit and the sword of the third giant, and when he came to fight with the dragon the people thought it was another champion who was in it. Question: How will the king's daughter feel when she sees the champion again? Answer: relieved
Context: Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both their breasts; and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle and trampling and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised. He spread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, and he could see her plain; but such a hullabulloo rose as if there was an earthquake, and he found himself surrounded by horrible-looking things, roaring at him and striving to pull his wife away. Question: What did the poor man find himself surrounded by? Answer: horrible-looking things
Context: The proposal pleased the two others, and forthwith they started on their travels. Soon they came to a little brook, and as there was no stepping-stone, and no bridge, they could not tell how they were to get to the other side. When, however, she reached the middle, and heard the water rushing past beneath her, she was struck with terror, and stopped, and could get no farther. Question: How did the bean help out the straw? Answer: He took out needle and thread and stitched her together again.
Context: He made up his mind to surrender, for he knew that his enemy was stronger than mortal man. He came up humbly to Momotaro and threw down his iron bar, and kneeling down at the victor's feet he broke off the horns on his head in token of submission, for they were the sign of his strength and power. Question: Why did the chief of devils surrender? Answer: He knew that his enemy was stronger than mortal man.
Context: In a beautiful island that lies in the southern seas, where chains of gay orchids bind the trees together. One morning, however, as she was staggering along with her bundle on her back, she thought that the river which flowed past their hut looked so cool and inviting. Question: Where did the seven sisters live? Answer: in a beautiful island
Context: Maidwa thought it strange that he should be so warmly received, and married instantly against his own wishes, although he could not help noticing that the chief's daughter was pretty. He wakened early, and finding the chief's daughter looking forth at the door, he spoke to her, but she gave no answer. Question: Why did the chief's daughter call Maidwa a fool? Answer: She thought he could not catch the Red Swan.
Context: 'God save you,' says the King (for the King was a civil-spoken gentleman, by all accounts), 'God save you,' says he to the young man. 'Oh, that's a folly to talk,' says the King, 'because myself and my goose is private friends,' says he, 'and no one could tell you,' says he, 'barrin' the fairies.' For I'd have you know,' says he, 'that I don't keep the likes o' such company.' Question: How will the king feel about Saint Kavin knowing about the goose? Answer: suspicious
Context: They searched the hall, and there was no man, and the castle, and there was none. No others were bought throughout the whole of Hereford, till the saddlers banded together and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions. Question: Why did Manawyddan want to go to England? Answer: learn some trade by which they may live
Context: Very punctually at four o'clock, Duchess started to go to the party. "Do not talk about food, my dear Ribby," said Duchess; "what a lovely white tea-cloth!.... Question: What does Duchess ask Ribby to place upon her nose? Answer: sugar
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Why did the wife begin to fear that some accident had befallen her husband? Answer: He remained out longer than usual.
Context: But just as she entered the church and took the hand of the bridegroom, who was waiting for her, a loud noise was heard. and the wedding garments fell to the ground, to the great confusion of the wearer. Question: What happened after the guest tried to examine the dress? Answer: The thread had vanished.
Context: You have but three days more, and your term will be completed. The father addressed Iadilla as he had the day before, and promised that he would himself prepare his first meal, and bring it to him by the dawn of the morning. Question: Why did the father encourage Iadilla to persevere? Answer: It was for Iadilla's glory.
Context: The money-pig was the only one who received a written invitation. The clock talked politics--"tick, tick;" he professed to know what was the time of day, but there was a whisper that he did not go correctly. Question: What did the game begin with? Answer: a tea party and discussion
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: What happened after the sticks were all burned? Answer: Tom was sent off again to pick more.
Context: I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child where he saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. When she saw me she gave a cry out of her, and she said, "Oh, my soul to God, if the master isn't come to life again." And when the mistress heard of it, she came to see with her own eyes, for she would not believe I was there. Question: Where did the wolf's child say his papa was? Answer: up in a tree
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." Indeed, to tell the truth, she was supposed to be a fairy herself. Now, it so happened that Oonagh had a sister named Granua living opposite to them, on the very top of Cullamore, which I have mentioned already. Question: What was Granua doing when Oonagh spoke to her? Answer: picking bilberries at Althadhawn
Context: As he stood musing on this fairy spectacle, a strange noise came to his ear from a distance. Floating at a distance upon its waters sat a most beautiful Red Swan, whose plumage glittered in the sun, and when it lifted up its neck, it uttered the peculiar tone he had heard. Question: Why did Maidwa keep shooting at the swan? Answer: He longed to possess so glorious a creature.
Context: His mother came to the door, clasped her hands together over her head, and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods. And then she decorated her room, and she herself, in her old days, went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction. Question: What did the mother say would happen if the son did not look for work? Answer: Both of them would starve to death.
Context: Watanabe, the second knight, could not bear the thought that his companion should believe he was afraid, so he answered quickly:  "Of course, I will go at once and find out for myself!" "I will take this," said Watanabe, "and put it on the Gate of Rashomon, so to-morrow morning will you all go and look at it? Question: Why did the men get a paper and write their names on it? Answer: so that Wantanabe can prove he had been there
Context: Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the Emperor Yuhi. This rebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which he fought to this end. Question: How did the Shiyu fool the emperor? Answer: brought down a dense fog upon the battlefield
Context: I cannot spare your wicked life, however much you beg, for you have killed and tortured many people and robbed our country for many years." Then Momotaro tied the devil chief up and gave him into the monkey's charge. Question: What did Momotaro do after giving the devil to the monkey's charge? Answer: went into all the rooms of the castle and set the prisoners free
Context: It chanced, long years ago, that a certain horse-dealer lived in the South of Scotland, near the Border. These hills are, as all men know, the scene of some of the most famous of Thomas the Rhymer's prophecies. Question: Who were resting under the three high peaks, waiting for the mystic call that shall awake them? Answer: King Arthur and his Knights
Context: Then Momotaro stood and gave this order:  "Now all of you must listen to me. Momotaro's influence was so great that the three became good friends, and hurried onwards with him as their leader. Question: Why did the animals promise to stop quarreling? Answer: The one who first begins a quarrel will be discharged on the spot.
Context: Hidesato and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to the balcony, and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great balls of glowing fire coming nearer and nearer. The Dragon King stood by the warrior's side trembling with fear. Question: How did Hidesato feel when he saw the centipede? Answer: brave
Context: The five Ancients withdrew after they had done their work, and thereafter lived in quiet purity. She leads the rounds of the fairies, and watches over change and growth. Question: What did the five ancients do when they withdrew after they had done their work? Answer: lived in quiet purity
Context: But the boy told them to throw the last cord of wood overboard, billet by billet, and no two billets at once. That is something you might just as well let be," said the cabin-boy, "seeing that you no longer have any wives." Question: What did the captain and quartermasters speak of when they reached land? Answer: writing to their wives
Context: The first time he came to earth he was the Yellow Lord, who taught mankind all sorts of arts. At the beginning of the reign of the Han dynasty, he again appeared as the Old Man of the River, (Ho Schang Gung). Question: Why did the Yellow Ancient fly up to the radiant sun? Answer: He fathomed the meaning of the world on the Ethereal Mount.
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: How many sons did the king have? Answer: seven
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived not very far from John of Groat's house, which, as everyone knows, is in the very north of Scotland. He lived in a little cottage by the sea-shore, and made his living by catching seals and selling their fur, which is very valuable. Question: How did the man earn a good deal of money by catching seals? Answer: It was not difficult to creep up behind them and kill them.
Context: When the peasant heard that, he went right to work pulling down his stable, to put it up again in another place. But one morning, when the milk-maid went into the stable, the dog was gone, and with him all the cows and the calves. Question: How did the neighbor treat the peasant after he moved his stable? Answer: politely
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: What did Earl St. Clair and Earl Gregory find after they returned to the spot where he threw the goblet? Answer: nothing but a piece of rough grey whinstone, with a drop of dew hidden in a little crevice
Context: exclaimed suddenly a child that stood crying at the door and knocking for admittance, while the rain poured down, and the wind made all the windows rattle. " There stood a little boy, quite naked, and the water ran down from his long golden hair. Question: What did the child say while knocking? Answer: let me in, let me in
Context: No more had they cast overboard their chips and litter than Sir Urian came along in a squall, and grabbed the master mariner by the collar. " He worked and sweat, and the perspiration ran down his cheeks in such streams that one might have run a mill with them, but he merely kept on pumping out of the North Sea into the North Sea. Question: What happened because the master mariner's ship had water in it? Answer: The devil did not uphold his end of the contract.
Context: The rebel was being driven backward by the royal troops when he again resorted to magic. Kotei by pointing to the shinansha could find his way and directed the army without a single mistake. Question: What happened after Shiyu said some strange words in a loud voice? Answer: a dense fog came down upon the battlefield
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: How did the princess feel about Tom? Answer: not well pleased
Context: Her elder sisters were all sought in marriage, and one after the other they went off to dwell in the lodges of their husbands; but Oweenee was deaf to all proposals of the kind. Though thus poor and homely, Osseo was a devout and good man; faithful in all his duties, and obedient in all things to the Good Spirit. Question: Why was Oweenee happy with Osseo? Answer: He was a good man.
Context: But it took no notice, and just grew and grew; there it stood fresh and green in winter and summer, and all who saw it said, 'What a beautiful tree!' It could not think of happiness, it was sad at leaving its home, the spot where it had sprung up; it knew, too, that it would never see again its dear old companions, or the little shrubs and flowers, perhaps not even the birds. Question: Why was the fir-tree the first to be cut down? Answer: It was a beautiful tree.
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: What did the lad take before going to where the dragon was? Answer: the first giant's sword
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: What did the champion say would happen to the land? Answer: The land above him should be filled with stock of sheep in the morning.
Context: The servant left the old woman at the door and went to tell his master that his old nurse had come to see him. Watanabe thought it strange that she should come at that time of night, but at the thought of his old nurse, who had been like a foster-mother to him and whom he had not seen for a long time, a very tender feeling sprang up for her in his heart. Question: How did Watanabe feel towards his old nurse? Answer: tender
Context: Osseo lived happy and contented in the parental lodge, and in due time his wife presented him with a son, who grew up rapidly, and in the very likeness of Osseo himself. He was very quick and ready in learning every thing that was done in his grandfather's dominions, but he wished also to learn the art of hunting, for he had heard that this was a favorite pursuit below. Question: What did Osseo's son wish to learn about? Answer: hunting
Context: When Pryderi heard of it, he was very wroth, and wished to stay and fight. They began to make shields, and fashioned them after the shape of the shields they had seen. Question: What will happen after the four people decide to make shields? Answer: The shield-makers will band together as the saddlers had done, and resolve to slay them.
Context: By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived, when he was not travelling with his father and mother. They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tails for the baby's mother, who felt at last that she was safe and at peace. Question: How did the mother and father show their gratitude? Answer: allowed her to rest, while they watched her baby
Context: So he took pen and ink and wrote something, and when he had done Jack my Hedgehog pointed out the way and the King got safely home. Then the King remembered Jack my Hedgehog, and he told his daughter how he had been obliged to give a written promise to bestow whatever he first met when he got home on an extraordinary creature which had shown him the way. Question: What did the King write he would give to Jack my Hedgehog? Answer: The King would not give Jack my Hedgehog anything at all.
Context: "I presume you have never heard of what is called 'European necessity?'" One must be able to adapt one's self to time and circumstances, and if there is a law that the 'maiden' is to be called 'hand-rammer,' why, she must be called 'hand-rammer,' and no pouting will avail, for everything has its measure." Question: How will the maidens feel about being called the wrong name? Answer: angry
Context: Apparently she was bent on the chase, for she carried a hunting-horn and a sheaf of arrows; and she led seven greyhounds along in a leash, while as many scenting hounds ran loose at her horse's side. But when the rider came to where he was, and understood his thoughts, she shook her head sadly. Question: What did the lady carry? Answer: a hunting-horn and a sheaf of arrows
Context: The six giants lived in a very high lodge in the middle of a wood. If White Feather should overcome the first giant, he was to try the second, and so on, until they had all measured speed with him. By a dexterous use of the vine, he gained the first race, struck down his competitor, and cut off his head. Question: Why did the giants speak to White Feather fairly? Answer: Their object was to encourage him, so that he would be bold to engage in some fool-hardy trial of strength.
Context: After he had heard him swear this terrible oath, the Wolf thought that his suspicions must be groundless, and he would have let the matter rest; but the Fox, having an uneasy conscience, could not do so. As this did not suit him at all, he next proposed that they should go for a walk, "for," said he, "it is now quite plain that neither of us can have taken the butter. Question: Why didn't the Fox let the matter rest? Answer: He had an uneasy conscience.
Context: And so he took his drum, sabre, cock's feather, clasp-knife, pop-gun and air-pistol, and went off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolves. Perhaps the very ones which killed the ram were still sitting there in a corner. Yes, it was not at all safe here, and there were no other people to be seen in the neighbourhood. Question: Why did Walter beat his drum? Answer: He thought there was a wolf.
Context: Uraschimataro drew near to the village with quick and joyful steps. He heard the children shouting and calling, and from a window that he passed came the twang of the koto, and everything seemed to cry a welcome for his return. But when the man spoke, he knew he was not dreaming, though he felt as if he had lost his senses. Question: Why did Uraschimataro's old house have a strange look? Answer: His parent did not live in the old house anymore.
Context: The little fasting-lodge had been removed, and the weeds kept from growing on the circle where it had stood. In its place rose a tall and graceful plant, surmounted with nodding plumes and stately leaves, and golden clusters. Question: What did Wunzh say was the friend of all mankind? Answer: Mondawmin
Context: I can quench my thirst without you,' and bending over the well he lapped up the water so greedily that he plunged his face, beard and all, right into the crystal mirror. The King didn't pause to ponder long, 'for what,' thought he, 'could be in my palace without my knowing about it--the thing is absurd;' so he answered quickly:  'Yes, I promise that you shall have it.' Question: How did the King feel when he couldn't get out of the well? Answer: afraid
Context: Of all the young gallants in Scotland in the thirteenth century, there was none more gracious and debonair than Thomas Learmont, Laird of the Castle of Ercildoune, in Berwickshire. He loved books, poetry, and music, which were uncommon tastes in those days; and, above all, he loved to study nature, and to watch the habits of the beasts and birds that made their abode in the fields and woods round about his home. Question: What did Thomas do one sunny May morning? Answer: left his Tower of Ercildoune, and went wandering into the woods that lay about the Huntly Burn
Context: The rebel was being driven backward by the royal troops when he again resorted to magic. Kotei by pointing to the shinansha could find his way and directed the army without a single mistake. Question: What happened because Kotei closely pursued the revel army? Answer: They came to a big river.
Context: But Earl St. Clair forgot that he carried a Talisman which his companion lacked, that enabled him to see things as they really were, while the other's eyes were holden, and he was startled and amazed when Earl Gregory said sharply, "Thy mind hath gone mad over this Elfin King. And because I love a gallant horseman, and would fain learn his name and degree, I will follow him till I find him, even if it be at the world's end." Question: What were the weird Goblins doing? Answer: shouting and singing as they danced, and waving their arms above their heads, and throwing themselves about on the ground
Context: Well, the poor man was miserable enough, for he was as fond of his woman as she was of him. It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeks to see his poor children neglected and dirty, as they often were, and they'd be bad enough only for a kind neighbour that used to look in whenever she could spare time. Question: What happened six weeks after the wife disappeared? Answer: A neighbour came up to him, and kept step by step with him to the field, and this is what she told him.
Context: Now, there are among us human creatures certain individuals who are known as "emancipated women," as, for instance, principals of institutions, dancers who stand professionally on one leg, milliners, and sick-nurses; and with this class of emancipated women the two Maidens in the shed associated themselves. He wants to marry me as a maiden, but whether he would have me were I a hand-rammer is a question, so I won't have my name changed." Question: why did the maidens want to be called maidens? Answer: because that's an honerable title
Context: 'I'm not at all old,' said the tree; 'there are many much older than I am.' Have you been in the storeroom, where cheeses lie on the shelves, and hams hang from the ceiling, where one dances on tallow candles, and where one goes in thin and comes out fat?' But then it went on to tell them about Christmas Eve, when it had been adorned with sweet-meats and tapers. Question: What did the little mice do after the fir-tree told them stories? Answer: The next evening they came with four others, who wanted to hear the tree's story.
Context: Once, many, many years ago, there was born a son to the Emperor Keiko, the twelfth in descent from the great Jimmu, the founder of the Japanese dynasty. From his childhood he proved himself to be of remarkable strength, wisdom and courage, and his father noticed with pride that he gave promise of great things, and he loved him even more than he did his elder son. Question: How did the chiefs feel in rebelling against the King? Answer: delight
Context: So the wife was very anxious while she helped her husband get ready for the long journey, knowing what an arduous task lay before him. The little girl was the only one to smile, for she was ignorant of the sorrow of parting. Question: What did the wife wish? Answer: she could accompany him
Context: After a time the foster-mother wanted to take another journey, and she forbade the girl, above all, to go into the two rooms which, as yet, she had not entered. When the foster-mother returned, and saw the moon had slipped out, she again grieved greatly, and told the girl she could keep her no longer, and that now she must go. Question: Why could the foster-mother keep the girl no longer? Answer: The girl was bothersome.
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. Question: What happened when the son took hold of the horn and twisted it? Answer: It came away with him in his hand.
Context: Then they allowed the waters to gather into rivers and seas, and hills and plains made their appearance. And there were sun, moon and all the stars, wind, clouds, rain, and dew. Question: How did the Yellow Ancient create grasses and trees, birds and beasts, and the tribes of the serpents and insects, fishes and turtles? Answer: The Yellow Ancient set earth's purest power spinning in a circle, and added the effect of fire and water.
Context: Once upon a time there was a young man named Farquhar MacNeill. However, before he saw what he took to be the light from a cottage window on his left hand, some distance from the path, and, forgetting his Mistress's instructions that he was to follow the path right over the hill. Question: What did Farquhar's mistress ask him to do? Answer: go over the hill to the house of a neighbour and borrow a sieve.
Context: The Emperor ordered Jofuku to set out for the land of Horaizan, to find the hermits, and to bring him back a phial of the magic elixir. But ever since that time Mount Fuji has been said to be the fabled Horaizan and the home of hermits who had the secret of the elixir. Question: What was Jofuku given? Answer: one of the Emperor's best junks
Context: Hase-Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke, and promised to do all that she was told. There is a proverb which says "As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred," and so Hase-Hime grew up as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess, though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss of her mother. Question: What did Prince Toyonari do after the death of his first wife? Answer: married again
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: Why did the daughter not see anything? Answer: The music put the daughter asleep.
Context: Sometimes he was enforced to pass the night in the clefts of old trees or caverns, and to break his fast with the refuse meals of the savage wolves. By and by they began to talk with him, and to inquire into his history. In the sand, as he drew closer to the land, he saw the tracks as of that animal fleeing away; and besides these the prints of human hands. Since you left me going in the canoe, a-he-ee, I am half changed into a wolf, E-wee. But the nearer he approached to poor Sheem, the faster he fled, and the more rapidly the change went on. Question: Why was Sheem half-boy and half-wolf? Answer: lived with wolves
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. And he drew up his boat on the shore, and asked him would he play cards. And he said he should have a castle, and of women the finest and fairest; and they were his. Question: What will happen when Morraha plays with the young man again? Answer: Morraha will win.
Context: But I can give you some good advice as to how you can see him. The daughter took the candle-end and hid it in her wimple, and in the evening the white bear came to fetch her. Question: How did the daughter plan on seeing the bear at night? Answer: lighting the light and looking at him
Context: The nails glittered like stars, and twinkled with live light as stars do in a frosty night, and the blade of it quivered like a tongue of white fire. There was a ring of flame round Tara that night, for the Fians and the warriors of Conn had torches in their hands, and all the royal buildings of Tara showed clear in the light, and also the dark serpentine course of the Boyne, which flowed past Tara on the north; and there, standing silent and alert, were the innumerable warriors of all Erin, with spear and shield, keeping watch and ward against the son of Midna, also the Four Pillars of Tara in four dense divisions around the high King, even Conn the Hundred-Fighter. Question: Why was there a ring of flame around Tara? Answer: the Fians and the warriors of Conn had torches in their hands
Context: On entering the cottage, he found another old man, who was so thin and withered and bent that he looked as if he must at least be a hundred years old. "Can you tell me anything of my friends, or where my father's cottage is?" Question: Where did Farquhar go to find out about his father's dwelling? Answer: a cottage
Context: "You have come just in the nick of time," said he, "for to-morrow I am to marry the princess. She will naturally agree to this, for she does not know that you made the spots, for only Christian hands can wash them out again, but not the hands of this pack of trolls. Question: What did the prince plan to ask the princess to do? Answer: that she wash the three drops of tallow from my shirt
Context: But the Wolf had seen the Fox beginning to grow greasy, and he knew now what had happened, and he determined to have his revenge. Then, keeping at a safe distance, he said to his companion, "There is writing on that smithy door, which I cannot read, as my eyes are failing; do thou try to read it, for perchance it may be something it were good for us to know." Question: What did the Wolf do to take his revenge? Answer: made the horse kick the Fox
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. A sorceress, that had a beautiful daughter, wished me for her son-in-law; but the mother got power over me, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.' Question: What did the prince need to do to break the enchantment? Answer: take the form of bear by day, and he was to continue so till a lady would marry him of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: Why did Kintoki go to the Ashigara mountains? Answer: She feared her husband's enemy.
Context: He was bent on success in pursuit of the swan, whose red track he marked well far westward till she was lost to sight. At a distance, on a rising ground, he could see the lodges of a large village. "Daughter," said the chief, as soon as the night had set in, "take our son-in-law's moccasins and see if they be torn. He wakened early, and finding the chief's daughter looking forth at the door, he spoke to her, but she gave no answer. Question: Why did Maidwa feel strange? Answer: He was so warmly received.
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: Why did Earl St. Clair want to wear the Sign of the Blessed Trinity on his wrists? Answer: He heard that a person is safe from the Elfin Knight if they wear the Sign of the Blessed Trinity.
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: What happened after Tom told his story? Answer: He laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it.
Context: Hidesato and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to the balcony, and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great balls of glowing fire coming nearer and nearer. The Dragon King stood by the warrior's side trembling with fear. Question: What did the warrior see on the opposite mountain? Answer: two great balls of glowing fire
Context: For a long time she did not tire of looking at the beautiful flower. She seated herself on the rock, put her hand to her cheek, cried, and thought of her unkind step-mother and step-sisters, and of all the harsh words she would have to endure when she returned. When she looked around there was nothing to be seen but a tiny old man, who nodded to her and seemed to be very humble. Question: How did the tiny old man seem? Answer: very humble
Context: The first time he came to earth he was the Yellow Lord, who taught mankind all sorts of arts. At the beginning of the reign of the Han dynasty, he again appeared as the Old Man of the River, (Ho Schang Gung). Question: What did the Old Man of the River do to have Taoism flourish greatly? Answer: spread the teachings of Tao abroad mightily
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: What was Aggo Dah Gauda punished with for using that foot against a venerable medicine man? Answer: one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping
Context: Then Thomas took courage, and looked up; and lo, they were riding through a beautiful orchard, where apples and pears, dates and figs and wine-berries grew in great abundance. And his tongue was so parched and dry, and he felt so faint, that he longed for some of the fruit to restore him. Question: Why did Thomas want to eat some of the fruit? Answer: His tongue was so parched and dry, and he felt so faint.
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: Why did the girl lie to the second snake? Answer: She tried to hide the first snake.
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived not very far from John of Groat's house, which, as everyone knows, is in the very north of Scotland. He lived in a little cottage by the sea-shore, and made his living by catching seals and selling their fur, which is very valuable. Question: What did the country people call larger seals? Answer: Roane
Context: In a church-nave a specter sat night by night, and the specter's name was Torre Jeppe. One night three tailors were working at a farmstead in the neighborhood. Question: How will the tailors feel if the girl brings back Torre Jeppe? Answer: shocked
Context: "It is so delightfully cold," said the Snow Man, "that it makes my whole body crackle. The sun went down, and the full moon rose, large, round, and clear, shining in the deep blue. Question: Who was setting? Answer: the sun
Context: "This is really beautiful," said a young girl, who had come into the garden with a young man. And we can't have such a fellow as this in the summer time," replied the young man, pointing to the Snow Man; "he is capital." Question: Why didn't the yard-dog ever bite the young girl? Answer: she stroked his back many times
Context: The Black Sheep was very proud and happy when the mother and her little boy came down to the bars and showed the new clothes that had been made from the wool. "This pays me for all my trouble," said the Black Sheep, and the little boy reached his hand through the bars and patted her gently upon the head. Question: How did the Black Sheep feel when the little boy showed her the new clothes made from her wool? Answer: proud
Context: Moreover, in his time the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin were scattered and destroyed, the folk of the underworld and of my fatherland; and to avenge the wrong and loss he wrought on them I slew the man I loved. And they digged a grave lengthways across the foot of the wide grave of Murtough and his spouse, and there they laid the maiden who had wrought them woe. Question: What did the clerics do after they wondered at those things? Answer: They wrote them and revised them in a book.
Context: But he left her no peace, till she went and unlocked the room and showed him the twelve coffins filled with shavings, and with the little pillow laid in each. 'Yes,' replied his mother, 'that is what you must do-go with your eleven brothers out into the wood, and let one of you always sit on the highest tree you can find, keeping watch on the tower of the castle. Question: How did the youngest boy comfort his mother? Answer: He said they would manage to escape.
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: What was the cause of shame? Answer: This annual building of Tara, only to be annually consumed.
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: Why was the woman home alone? Answer: Her husband had gone to the forest.
Context: Long, long ago, there lived in the province of Shinshin in Japan, a traveling monkey-man, who earned his living by taking round a monkey and showing off the animal's tricks. One evening the man came home in a very bad temper and told his wife to send for the butcher the next morning. Question: Why was the man in a bead temper? Answer: The monkey was too old and forgot his tricks.
Context: He thought how foolish it was to waste more time in looking for the hermits in this way. So he decided to go at once to the shrine of Jofuku, who is worshiped as the patron god of the hermits in the south of Japan. Question: How did the odd answer make Sentaro feel? Answer: irritated
Context: That night he died, and his wife and son and daughter mourned for him seven days, and gave him a burial according to the custom of his people. 'I am going away from you,' she said to her children, in a faint voice; 'but first, my son, choose which you will have: blessing or property.' Question: What did the son choose after his mother asked him? Answer: property
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Who did the wife beheld? Answer: two strange females
Context: Once, when the wicked Emperor Tsin Schi Huang had conquered all the other kingdoms, and was traveling through the entire empire, he came to the homeland of Confucius. And there on the floor stood two shoes of red silk, whose tips were adorned with a woven pattern of clouds. Question: What will happen after Emperor Tsin Schi Huang enters the grave? Answer: He will steal from Confucius's grave.
Context: Then they took counsel together, and watched her to see what she did. Then she threw herself on her knees by the edge, and peered into the dark water, but the trees cast such a deep shadow that her eyes could not pierce it. Question: What happened after one of the sisters saw the fish? Answer: The eldest sister went and caught him. He was boiled for supper.
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan. Question: What will the Emperor do because he learned of the hermits on Horaizan? Answer: send someone there
Context: On the following day there was to be a wedding at the castle, and not only was the older prince to marry, but the one who had stayed with the giant as well, and he was to get the other bride's sister. So they sent to the little house in the forest, and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the poker of which the bailiff had spoken. Question: What did the poker do? Answer: kept the axle from breaking
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. Question: Who led the Prince to a beautiful apartment? Answer: two servants
Context: He mused upon the absence of Wassamo with a sorely-troubled heart. " Although," he said to himself, "his parents are my kindred, and they are well assured that their son is my bosom-friend, will they receive that belief in the place of him who is lost. Question: Why did the cousin not believe that Wassamo was playing a trick on him? Answer: It was full time that the trick should be at an end, and Wassamo returned not.
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. You are surprised," said the Old Spirit, "to see us disappear when it thunders. We get out of sight that we may escape the necessity of asking him to come in and share our evening meal. The Old Spirit was the last to drop away; and, before he yielded, he went forth and had his last sport with the sand-hills, and he so tossed and vexed the poor hills, and scattered them to and fro, and whirled them up in the air, and far over the land, that it was days and days before they got back to any thing like their natural shape. Question: How did Wassamo amuse himself? Answer: looked into the cupboard
Context: Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" But as they were amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deep growl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after that one yet more savage; but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus Mac Roy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "It is Setanta." Question: What was the great mastiff accustomed to do? Answer: rend him
Context: The spring passed, and it was the eve of St. John, or Midsummer Day. But Marie was afraid; she could not tell why, only she could not bear the child to go. Question: Why didn't Marie want to let Snowflake play with the young girls? Answer: Marie was afraid.
Context: At the close of this busy day, when the Old Spirit came in very much out of breath, he said to Wassamo, "Son-in-law, I am in want of tobacco. Other gifts beside tobacco came in the same way to the side of the lodge--sometimes a whole bear, then a wampum-robe, then a string of birds--and the Sand-Spirits altogether led an easy life; for they were not at the trouble to hunt or clothe themselves; and whenever the housekeeping began to fall short, nothing would happen but a wonderful storm of dust, all the sand-hills being straightway put in an uproar, and the contributions would at once begin to pour in at the side windows of the lodge, till all their wants were supplied. Question: Why did the Old Spirit highly value tobacco? Answer: It was a rare plant.
Context: "Look there," he said, and pointed with a twisted finger, to a leathern purse, or sporran, which was hanging to one of the posts of a wooden bedstead in the corner. He was almost frightened out of his wits by seeing a tiny shrivelled face crowned by a red pirnie, looking over the edge of the sporran. Question: Why was Farquhar frightened? Answer: He saw a tiny shrivelled face crowned by a red pirnie, looking over the edge of the sporran.
Context: "But must we not all here on earth give up our best parts to others, and offer as much as lies in our power? Let the hazel bush bear nuts, and the cows and sheep give milk; they have each their public. Question: What did the snail do after he spoke? Answer: withdrew into his house and blocked the entrance
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: What happened after the wolf cut the hand from the wrist? Answer: laid the hand in the cradle with the child, and fell asleep
Context: When this had been kept up for the customary time, the enchanted dog was completely sweated away, and in his stead, as might have been expected, out came a very handsome young man, but, unhappily, without the power of speech. When the deputation reached the lodge, they were surprised to find, in the place of the dog, a fine young man; and on announcing their message, they all returned to the old chief, who was no less surprised at the change. Question: What did the eldest sister forget to say? Answer: any thing of the sticks and stones which her own husband brought home for bears and beavers
Context: When midnight came she saw afar off a little light, and thought, 'Ah! and peeped through the window; but she saw nothing inside except big and little toads, and a table beautifully spread with roast meats and wine, and all the dishes and drinking-cups were of silver. Question: Where did the Princess find the big and little toads? Answer: a little old house
Context: MISS MOPPET holds her poor head in her paws, and looks at him through a hole in the duster. HE has wriggled out and run away; and he is dancing a jig on the top of the cupboard! Question: How did the Mouse run away? Answer: Because she forget that hole in the duster and when she untied it, there was no Mouse.
Context: One among them, who was about fifteen years of age, danced the dance of the giving of flowers with flying sleeves and waving locks. When the dance had ended, this dancer also went off with the rest of the girls to the western courtyard. Question: Who were all little girls? Answer: the swallow dancers
Context: Ribby in the meantime had received Duchess's answer, and as soon as she was sure that the little dog would come--she popped HER pie into the oven. And I have taken out all the bones; because Duchess did nearly choke herself with a fish-bone last time I gave a party. Question: Why did Ribby take out all the bones? Answer: because Duchess did nearly choke herself with a fish-bone last time
Context: ONCE upon a time there was a poor tenant farmer who had a number of children whom he could feed but poorly, and had to clothe in the scantiest way. So she seated herself on the bear's back, and the bear set out. Question: What had changed for her family since the maiden left home? Answer: Her family was now rich.
Context: At last the giant's wife determined that she would go to her father and make known to him what a valuable husband she had, and how he furnished her lodge with a great abundance of sticks and stones, which he would pass upon her for bear and beaver. She then put in heated stones, and poured water upon them, which raised a vapor that filled the lodge and searched with its warmth to the very heart's core of the enchanted dog. Question: Why did the youngest sister build a lodge and fill it with heated stones? Answer: The dog made signs to his mistress to sweat him after the manner of the Indians.
Context: But what were deadly poisons in other lands were without effect in this strange place. This was because after using it for a hundred years, it was supposed to turn the hair slightly gray and to bring about disorders of the stomach. Question: How did their long lives make the people feel? Answer: wearisome
Context: "You must call the raven," said the wolf, and that is what the king's son did. And the raven came at once, and flew right down with the key, and now the prince could enter the church. Now the prince again did not know how he was to get hold of it. " Question: What did the giant do when the prince squeezed the egg? Answer: cried out
Context: The youth turned around quickly, and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off. But now they were delivered, because he had come down to them, and had never contradicted. Question: How were the princess and her playmates delivered? Answer: The youth had come down to them and never contradicted.
Context: One path leads to the south-west shore of the Sea of Dungting, the second path leads to a valley in the land of the four rivers, the third path ends in a cave on the mountain of Lo-Fu and the fourth in an island of the Eastern Sea. It happened once in the ancient days, that a fisherboy dived into the water and brought up a pearl from beneath the chin of a black dragon. Question: How did the fisherboy bring up the pearl without being harmed? Answer: The dragon was asleep.
Context: That was the first day, and as time went on it got worse and worse. And his mother said: "I wish you'd get right away"; and the ducks bit him and the hens pecked him, and the maid who had to feed the creatures kicked at him. Question: Why was the Duckling chased about by everybody? Answer: He was ugly.
Context: You cannot possibly have finished before you have really begun!" Then his master saw that he had finished his work, and that one would have to handle such a strong fellow with kid gloves. Question: What happened after Murmur Goose-Egg ate up everything? Answer: He was only half satisfied.
Context: The bright stars have always been a joy to me and have always shone more brilliantly than I ever could shine, though I have tried with my whole might. Now they have noticed me, a poor old lamp, and have sent me a gift that will enable me to see clearly everything that I remember, as if it still stood before me, and to let it be seen by all those who love me. Question: Who will be able to see the street lamps memories? Answer: all those who love it
Context: In a nursery where a number of toys lay scattered about, a money-box stood on the top of a very high wardrobe. The money-pig was stuffed so full that it could no longer rattle, which is the highest state of perfection to which a money-pig can attain. Question: What animal does the money-box look like? Answer: a pig
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: When did the cabin-boy grow restless? Answer: when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall
Context: Why, then,' said I to him--thinking he did not know the right road home--very civilly, because why? By my word, it would be no joke to shoot this way, to oblige a drunken blackguard that I picked up off a could stone in a bog.' ' Faith, this is my business, I think,' says I. 'Be quiet, Dan!' And my lord, sir,' says I, 'who in the world axed you to fly so far--was it I? Why, then, I'm in a fine way,' said I to myself, 'ever to have come along with the likes of you'; and so, giving him a hearty curse in Irish, for fear he'd know what I said, I got off his back with a heavy heart, took hold of the reaping-hook and sat down upon the moon, and a mighty cold seat it was, I can tell you that. It was all to no manner of use; he spread out his great big wings, burst out a laughing, and flew away like lightning. Question: Why was Daniel angry at the eagle? Answer: The eagle did not drop him off at his cabin.
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: Where did Fionn go with the chief of the Fenians? Answer: Teamhair Luachra
Context: She went and got another of her own children's cradles, of which there were four; but he turned his head, and said:  "That is not mine; I am as sick as ever." To get free of the old Toad-Woman, it was necessary that the young man should kill a fat bear; and, being directed by Spirit-Iron, who was very wise in such a matter, he secured the fattest in all that country; and having stripped a tall pine of all its bark and branches, he perched the carcass in the top, with its head to the east and its tail due west. Question: Why did the Toad-Woman say that it was not very far to retrieve a fat bear? Answer: A fat bear was the delight of the old Toad-Woman.
Context: Now the Afghans began to look a little uncomfortable, but Moti seemed so determined to keep the horse that they resolved to appeal to the law, so they went off and laid a complaint before the king that Moti had stolen one of their horses and would not give it up nor pay for it. But Moti declared that he had got the animal in exchange for fifty pieces of silver, whilst the horse merchants vowed that the money they had on them was what they had received for the sale of other horses; and in one way and another the dispute got so confusing that the king (who really thought that Moti had stolen the horse) said at last, 'Well, I tell you what I will do. Question: Who really thought that Moti had stolen the horse? Answer: the king
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: What happened after the ram exclaimed the division was unfair? Answer: He immediately snatched the quarter that lay before Fionn's four men, and carried it away into a corner, where he began to devour it.
Context: But it was impossible for so many people to ride on the Dragon. The courtiers took them up carefully and preserved them as sacred relics in the Palace. Question: How did the left behind inmates of the Palace feel? Answer: disappointed
Context: They hoped that his shining qualities would draw back the thoughts of Leelinau from that spirit-land whither she seemed to have wholly directed her affections. It was this chief's son whom Iagoo had pictured as the corn-taker, but, without objecting to his age, or giving any other reason, Leelinau firmly declined his proposals. Question: Who did Iagoo picture as the corn-taker? Answer: the chief's son
Context: It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face, and they looked at each other in silence. Then tears rose in the eyes of the elder, but winking them hastily away, he said:  'Brother, it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am; you can see that for yourself. Question: What did the younger brother do after he listened to his elder brother's request? Answer: gave him the houses that he asked for
Context: "Thy inheritance," answered the King, "be it great or small, and whether it lies in Ireland or beyond Ireland; and for securities I give you my son Art and Gaul mac Morna and the Chief of the Fians." Gaul and the captains of the Fianna consented to that arrangement, though reluctantly, for their minds misgave them as to who the great youth might be. Question: What was in the spear? Answer: twenty nails of gold of Arabia
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. Question: What will Iadilla's new shape be? Answer: a robin-red-breast
Context: When at last the soldiers had stowed away as much as they could hold, they shouted hurrah until they woke the echoes in the hills, and marched away. One may imagine what a fine parade march it was, for some of them had grown a little loose-jointed in the knees. Question: What did the duke charge the soldiers to do? Answer: carry his greetings to the king, and say that he would soon pay him a visit
Context: But the ushers rushed her out of the hall, thinking she had gone suddenly insane; and the senator's friends seized him firmly and carried him out the stage entrance to the street, where they put him into an open carriage and instructed the driver to take him home. The effect of the magic bonbon was still powerful enough to control the poor senator, who stood upon the rear seat of the carriage and danced energetically all the way home, to the delight of the crowd of small boys who followed the carriage and the grief of the sober-minded citizens, who shook their heads sadly and whispered that "another good man had gone wrong." Question: Why did the ushers think that Claribel was insane? Answer: She accused the senator of stealing her bonbons.
Context: But it was still more to the surprise of her husband Kwasynd that she never partook of food, nor shared in any way the longings and appetites of a mortal creature. But Bokwewa watched closely every word that fell from her lips, and often forgot, like her, all mortal appetite and care of the body, in conferring with her, and noting what she had to say of spirits and fairies, of stars, and streams that never ceased to flow, and the delight of the happy hunting-grounds, and the groves of the blessed. Question: What did Kwasynd and Bokwewa notice about the woman? Answer: She never partook of food.
Context: She even waited upon her step-mother kindly and obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble, just as she had been trained by her own good mother, so that the Lady Terute had no cause for complaint against her. When she was twelve years of age she could play so beautifully that she and her step-mother were summoned to the Palace to perform before the Emperor. Question: Why did Lady Terute have no cause for complaint against Hase-Him? Answer: Hase Hime obeyed her in every way and never gave any trouble.
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: What will happen when the second daughter goes with the son? Answer: She will hear music.
Context: I wandered and wandered about there, without knowing where I wandered, until at last I got into a big bog. Down it came with a pounce, and looked at me full in the face; and what was it but an eagle?--as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdom of Kerry! Question: What did the Daniel sing? Answer: the ULLAGONE
Context: "No, all of us together did away with them," answered the boy, and told them what he had heard and seen that Sunday afternoon when he was on watch on the ship; while the crew was ashore, and the captain was buying his deckload of wood. And when they sailed home they learned that their wives had disappeared the day of the storm, and that since that time no one had seen or heard anything more of them. Question: What did the men learn when they returned home? Answer: Their wives had disappeared the day of the storm.
Context: Then Shasasa took the Magic Mirror and hid it beneath her pillow, and after that for many years Gopani-Kufa ruled his people both well and wisely, so that all men loved him, and never once did he need to ask Sipao to grant him a wish. Up the Zambesi they came, and they fought long and fiercely with Gopani-Kufa; but, because of the power of the Magic Mirror, he beat them, and they fled to the sea-coast. Question: What did Shasasa do with the mirror? Answer: hid it beneath her pillow
Context: There once lived in Sianfu an old Buddhist monk, who loved to wander in lonely places. In the course of his wanderings he once came to the Kuku-Nor, and there he saw a tree which was a thousand feet high and many cords in breadth. Question: Where did the old Buddhist monk live? Answer: Sianfu
Context: The giant passed on before me and crossed Eas Roe (now Ballyshannon), of the son of Modhuirn, without wetting his foot. He was followed by Caoilte Mac Ronan, together with the swiftest of the Fenians. They enquired what was the cause of the delay that the giant had not been slain. ' Question: What did Fionn do when Liagan Luaimneach and Caoilte Mac Ronan wanted to strike the giant? Answer: protected the giant from their attacks
Context: The boy from the tree had no more than time to escape, when the hunter entered, and found his son, sitting as usual, near the fire. My son," he said, "you must be very foolish when alone to play so. He, however, engaged his son to entice the boy to a dead tree, by the edge of a wood, where they could kill many flying-squirrels by setting it on fire. Question: How did the hunter confirm his suspicions that his son was with someone else? Answer: There was the print of a foot which was smaller than his son's.
Context: But the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner, and try to win her daughter. His mother did not think this such a bad idea, for now the youth was handsomely dressed, and made a good showing. Question: What was sun doing when the youth stepped out? Answer: shining bright and warm
Context: And on the third morning Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and he saw the young man coming. And he drew up his boat on the shore, and asked him would he play cards. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. He rose in the morning, and took the bridle that was in the window and went out and shook it, and Brown Allree came and put her head in it. Question: Why did Morraha groan? Answer: He did not know how to meet the young man's demands.
Context: I am on the wane, and no lamps have ever given me light, while I have frequently shone upon them." But this seemed to the lamp a very shabby present, and the wind thought so, too. " Question: What did the moon give the streetlamp? Answer: nothing
Context: In fact, he began to think that his master was right, and that the whole thing must have been a dream. That day, as the sun went down, the orra man left the farm to go home to his cottage. Question: What did the master give to the poor man as a present? Answer: a little can of milk
Context: "He is, in reality, no longer a bear," said one; "nor can he justly be called a bird. But he is half bird and half bear, and so unfitted to remain our king." Question: Why did the polar bears believe that the King of Polar Bears was unfit to be their king? Answer: He was half bird and half bear.
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. One evening during the winter season, it chanced that he remained out longer than usual, and his wife began to fear that some accident had befallen him. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Why were the two strange females described as two corpses clothed with garments? Answer: They acted strangely.
Context: The guests listened breathlessly, for they felt that they would never hear such wonderful music again. For that very night, after all the Nobles had gone back to their tents, a soldier on guard saw, in the moonlight, a snow-white Hart and Hind moving slowly down the road that ran past the camp. Question: Why did the soldier want to call for Thomas? Answer: He wanted to know if the animals were an omen.
Context: When the mouse had made up her fire and drawn water, she went to rest in her little room until it was time to lay the cloth. The sausage stayed by the saucepans, looked to it that the victuals were well cooked, and just before dinner-time he stirred the broth or the stew three or four times well round himself, so as to enrich and season and flavour it. Question: What do they do after a meal? Answer: Go to bed and sleep their fill till the next morning.
Context: The good old man was greatly surprised at what he heard, but respectfully followed the Knight to the nobleman's Palace. Then the Daimio said:  "You must make that dead cherry tree in my garden blossom again by means of your famous ashes. Question: What did the Daimio request from the old man? Answer: make that dead cherry tree in his garden blossom again by means of his famous ashes
Context: Just as I was falling asleep last night, I heard a horse's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door, and there, when I came out, was a fine-looking dark man, mounted on a black horse, and he told me to get ready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. The lady clapped her hands, and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and the baby, and praised me, and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over. Question: Who was at the door? Answer: a fine-looking dark man
Context: When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supper herself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another, for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time. Question: What did the son save for the girl? Answer: a small pot and a vessel
Context: She stretched out her arm to try and get it, but it was quite out of her reach. She looked about for a stick, but there was not one to be seen, and if she went to look for one she would lose the peach. Question: How did the woman try to get the peach? Answer: stretched out her arm
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: How did Dectera secretly feel about Setanta's wish to go to the military school? Answer: alarmed
Context: In fact, he began to think that his master was right, and that the whole thing must have been a dream. That day, as the sun went down, the orra man left the farm to go home to his cottage. Question: How will the poor man feel after his master gives him a present? Answer: very happy
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: Why was luck against the elder son and his wife? Answer: At the time of his father's death they had hardly bread to eat or clothes to cover them.
Context: That night he died, and his wife and son and daughter mourned for him seven days, and gave him a burial according to the custom of his people. 'I am going away from you,' she said to her children, in a faint voice; 'but first, my son, choose which you will have: blessing or property.' Question: What did the daughter choose after her mother asked her? Answer: blessing
Context: A whipping top and a little ball lay together in a box, among other toys, and the top said to the ball, "Shall we be married, as we live in the same box?" The next day came the little boy to whom the playthings belonged, and he painted the top red and yellow, and drove a brass-headed nail into the middle, so that while the top was spinning round it looked splendid. Question: What was the ball wearing? Answer: a dress of morocco leather
Context: But the wily Fox was fond of butter, and he made up his mind that he would have it all to himself. It behoveth us to have foresight, and to lay up in store for the spring, when the grain is all threshed, and the stackyards are bare, and the poultry have gone to market. Question: What reason did the Fox give for not wanting to open up the Keg of Butter? Answer: It was not a good time to open it.
Context: Once upon a time there was a king, who reigned over a great kingdom. It is not hard to imagine the grief that reigned, not alone in the royal castle, but throughout the land; for the queen had been beloved of all. Question: Who was loved above everything else in the world? Answer: the little girl
Context: The next morning, when the King awoke, what do you think he saw? So the old woman had to strike again three times upon the ground with the rod, and the next morning the garden was there. Question: How did the king feel when he saw the wall stood there before his eyes, exactly as he had bespoken it? Answer: surprised
Context: He at once made ready to start, and great was the stir in the precincts of the Palace as he and his trusty followers gathered together and prepared for the expedition, and polished up their armor and donned it. Before he left his father's Court he went to pray at the shrine of Ise and to take leave of his aunt the Princess Yamato, for his heart was somewhat heavy at the thought of the dangers he had to face, and he felt that he needed the protection of his ancestress, Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess. Question: Why did the Prince pray at the shrine of Ise? Answer: His heart was somewhat heavy at the thought of the dangers he had to face.
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: What did the Queen give to Thomas as a parting gift? Answer: the Gifts of Prophecy and Poesie
Context: The youth came rushing in to the king, so that his rags fairly fluttered. " Now a great ship from abroad had shortly before come into port, and one could see it from the castle window. " Question: What could be seen from the castle window? Answer: a great ship from abroad
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: What will happen after the younger brother summons his brother in a court of law? Answer: The judge will decide in favor of the poor man.
Context: Ah, well, if the little lady were only here with me in the boat, I should not care for any darkness." Suddenly there appeared a great water-rat, who lived in the drain. " Question: Why did the water rat want to stop the tin soldier? Answer: he did not pay the toll
Context: She was still more angry when they made no answer to her complaint; but when she found that they were stark dead, and placed in this way to mock her, her fury was very great indeed. The old Toad-Woman was very anxious to get forward, but the snakeberry-vines kept spreading out on every side; and they still grow and grow, and spread and spread; and to this day the wicked old Toad-Woman is busy picking the berries, and she will never be able to get beyond to the other side, to disturb the happiness of the young hunter and his mother, who still live, with their faithful dog, in the shadow of the beautiful wood-side where they were born. Question: How did the Toad-Woman feel when she was trying to go forward? Answer: anxious
Context: Then he went down to the shore and sat on a sand-pile, and when he had sat there long enough, he wished that a ship might lie out in the fjord, completely equipped with masts and sails and all that goes with them, and that it might resemble the ship already lying there in every particular. "That is all very fine," said the king, "but you must stand yet another test. Question: Why did the king come down to shore? Answer: He saw that there were two ships at anchor instead of one.
Context: When heaven gave her a second child, a guard of twice as many men as had first stood watch was again set about her. Yet everything happened as before, only that this time the foster-mother said to her: "Now you shall grieve as I did when you let the moon slip out!" The queen wept and pleaded-for when the foster-mother was there she could speak-but without avail. Question: Who came when the queen was being led to her stake? Answer: the foster-mother with all three children
Context: Take her up before you on your horse, and ride into town and marry her. So the wedding was celebrated, and when the dishes made the round, the bridegroom went out into the room where the table had been set for the old folk from the mountain. Question: What did the old man tell the dragoon to do with the girl? Answer: Take her up before him on his horse, and ride into town and marry her.
Context: She turned round in surprise, and then she saw the little creature, the Golden Crab. she said, for she was not quite pleased at the Crab's remarks. Question: Why did the fisherman become fond of the Golden Crab? Answer: The fisherman found gold when he took away the plate which had contained the Crab's dinner.
Context: The giants used to put--each man of them--a shout of him every evening. There's some change in the caher[2] to-night," said the gentleman, when he heard the two shouts. Question: What did the giants used to put in each man? Answer: a shout of him every evening
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: How did Sentaro feel at the thought of drowning? Answer: frightened
Context: The woodcutter, for such he seemed to be by his dress, marveled at all he saw, and said to himself:  "This is no ordinary child. "Next to the bear it is not easy to say which is the strongest, for the deer, the monkey, and the hare all seem to be as strong as each other," said Kintaro. Question: Who will the voice from outside be? Answer: the woodcutter
Context: Once upon a time there lived at Vaero, not far from Rost, a poor fisherman, named Isaac. He wanted to get him out of the way, in order to take for himself the anchorage before Isaac's hut. Question: Why did Isaac not get along with his neighbor? Answer: The neighbor thought himself entitled to far more than such a beggarly fellow as Isaac.
Context: The crane grew large enough for him to ride on it with comfort. Time passed like the flight of an arrow for him, for he was busy from morning till night. Question: How will Sentaro return home? Answer: fly on the crane
Context: These and similar reflections occupied the old street lamp on this the last time that its light would shine. The sentry, when he is relieved from his post, knows, at least, who will be his successor, and may whisper a few words to him. Question: Why did the street lamp want to know its successor? Answer: so it could give tips
Context: She turned round in surprise, and then she saw the little creature, the Golden Crab. she said, for she was not quite pleased at the Crab's remarks. Question: Who was the little creature talking to the fisherman's wife? Answer: the Golden Crab
Context: And she gave him a handful of fish-bones, which Ko-ko, taking them to be the Invisible Tallies which had helped Onwee Bahmondang in climbing the magical tree, thrust into his bosom. Ko-ko turned about and laughed to scorn the proposal, and putting forth his right foot from the lodge first, an observance in which he had great hopes, he started for the lodge of the wicked father. Question: What did Ko-ko do when the old woman offered advice? Answer: laughed to scorn the proposal
Context: At length grew hungry, so the young woman was sent home to bring them food, and also to give the horses their dinner. When she went into the stables, she suddenly saw the heavy pack-saddle of the speckled mare just over her head. Question: How did the young woman feel after the pack-saddle almost fell on her? Answer: scared
Context: He sat there with her all day long, for they had soon agreed that they would marry, he and the king's daughter, and in this way his first day in the giant's service did not weary him at all. When he got there he thought he would try out her advice, and began to use the shovel as he had seen his father's grooms use it. Question: What made the stable become clean in a wink? Answer: The king's son turned the shovel around and used the handle.
Context: And now we have got rid of her, we must consider what we are to do with the old dog. No, the first time I see him, it's all up with him, I can tell you.' Question: What does Simon decide to do to the dog? Answer: to hang him
Context: The next evening when I gave another performance and the lecturer was present, I was in one of my best moods. " I once heard of an actor, who, when he had to act the part of a lover, always thought of one particular lady in the audience. Question: how much did the man sleep that night? Answer: not at all
Context: At length another man came that way, and the peasant asked him whether he would make wood in his stead, for it was impossible to lay down the ax unless another took it up and went on working. So the man took the ax and stood there making wood, and the peasant went into the devil's place himself, and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig. Question: What did the peasant do after the man took the ax? Answer: went into the devil's place himself, and asked whether any one wanted to buy a pig
Context: The giant, giving vent to his feelings with many loud rumbling words, looked sharply around to see whether he could discover any tracks. When he of the little shell came in sight of the lodge, the stranger was in front of it, employed in skinning his beavers. Question: Why couldn't the giant find tracks? Answer: Dais-Imid had stepped too lightly to leave the slightest mark behind.
Context: After a while Paul decided to go to the castle and herd the king's hares. He was at once taken into service, but the hares all ran away across the hills, though he pursued them, and worked away like a shepherd dog in the sun, and when he came back to the castle in the evening minus his hares, there stood the king with the knife in his hand, cut three broad strips from his back, rubbed in pepper and salt, and flung him into the snake-pit. Question: What did the hares do when Paul watched them? Answer: ran away across the hills
Context: When the day came on which the cabin-boy was to take command, the weather was fair and quiet; but he drummed up the whole ship's crew, and with the exception of a tiny bit of canvas, had all sails reefed. The captain and crew laughed at him, and said: "That shows the sort of a captain we have now. Question: How did the captain and crew feel about the cabin-boy taking charge? Answer: ridiculous
Context: The crane grew large enough for him to ride on it with comfort. The bird never stopped for rest or food, but as it was a paper bird it doubtless did not require any nourishment, and strange to say, neither did Sentaro. Question: How did Sentaro feel when he first rode on the crane? Answer: frightened
Context: The winter was nearly passed away, when, one evening, the hunter was abroad later than usual. The moment he came in and laid down his day's hunt, as was his custom, before his wife, the two females seized upon the deer and began to tear off the fat in so unceremonious a way that her anger was excited. The strange guests observed the state of her mind, and they became uneasy, and withdrew further still into the remote gloom of the lodge. Question: Why did the strangers give the hunter and his wife instructions and a blessing? Answer: More than half the time, the couple passed the test.
Context: Hans took the bacon, and tied a string round it, and dragged it after him on his way home, and the dogs came and ate it up, so that when he got home he had the string in his hand, and nothing at the other end of it. "I tied a piece of string to it, and led it home, but the dogs ate it, mother." Question: Where does his mother think Hans should have carried the bacon? Answer: on his head
Context: I am so afraid that the buffaloes will butt us, and the great serpent eat us up. 'Very well,' said the dream-boy with the white coat, 'it is only a little way to Polynesia'--and then they were there. Question: Why didn't Little Lasse want to land in America? Answer: He was so afraid that the buffaloes would butt them, and the great serpent eat them up.
Context: On another occasion, in the days of Kien Lung, the minister Dschou
Ling was ordered to install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands. When
the fleet was sailing by south of Korea, a storm arose, and his ship
was driven toward the Black Whirlpool. Question: What was Dschou Ling ordered to do? Answer: install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands
Context: I do not know what occupation he pursues; he looks stout and comfortable. Of course there are the trades-men's carts--the butcher, the fish-man and Timothy Baker. Question: Why did the closing of the shop create great inconvenience for the villagers? Answer: Tabitha Twitchit immediately raised the price of everything a half-penny and she continued to refuse to give credit.
Context: He rushed out of his hill with a hunk of flint-rock in his fist. "And I will squash you till the water runs out, just as I squash this stone!" Question: How did the shepherd-lad react to the threats of Stompe Pilt? Answer: threatened Stompe Pilt back
Context: He rushed out of his hill with a hunk of flint-rock in his fist. "And I will squash you till the water runs out, just as I squash this stone!" Question: How did Stompe Pilt feel when he heard the goat-herd go by? Answer: angry
Context: The thought that something might be hidden beneath the tree, and that the dog had scented it, at last struck the old man. So intent was the old man on his work that he never saw the cross face of his neighbor peering at him through the bamboo hedge. Question: What did the old man do when the idea struck the man? Answer: ran back to the house, fetched his spade, and began to dig the ground at that spot
Context: There was but little light in the lodge, as the fire was low, and its fitful flashes, by disclosing their white faces and then dropping them in sudden darkness, served rather to increase than to dispel her fears. The next day, however, the same unusual conduct was repeated. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: How did the hunter and his wife feel when they saw the mysterious females devour the deer? Answer: astonished
Context: Once upon a time, in the city of Shansi, there lived a scholar who
found the company of others too noisy for him. Yet he suffered because there were always so many
gnats and fleas in his room that he could not sleep at night. Question: Where did the scholar move to? Answer: a Buddhist temple
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan. Question: Who brought up the hermits and Horaizan? Answer: Jofuku
Context: And what had happened to her sister happened to her, she had to seat herself, and could not get up again. This he wished to have, and promised he would release her from the chair if she would give it to him. The hat he must have, but the old witch would not part with it, since it was her Three-Sisters Hat, and if she gave it away she would be thoroughly unhappy. Question: Why did the old witch agree to give up the hat? Answer: She heard that she would have to sit there until the Day of Judgement if she did not give up the hat.
Context: The following day the Prince of the Dragon's Cave held a review of his dancers. When all the dancers had assembled, the dance of the Ogres was danced first. Question: What will the Prince of the Dragon Cave do during the dance? Answer: hastily bade the dance cease, and had the dancers of the nightingale round step forth
Context: The dog soon came into the lodge, and she set before him the dish of grape-juice. He rose up when he got into the open air, stood upon his hind legs, and looked about. " Question: What happened after Spirit-Iron drank the wild grape's juice? Answer: sought out his young master
Context: She then brought Far Rua down to see the place, which was then all one solid rock; and after looking at it for some time, he cracked his right middle finger nine times, and, stooping down, tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length, which has since been christened by the name of Lumford's Glen. Why," said she, "that's Finn's bread--the only bread he ever eats when at home; but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there. Oonagh went over, and putting into his hand a cake that had no griddle in it--Finn, whose appetite in the meantime was sharpened by what he saw going forward, soon made it disappear. "I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he to Oonagh, "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer." " Get up, acushla, and show this decent little man something that won't be unworthy of your father, Finn M'Coul." He gave one loud groan and fell down at once with terror and weakness. This was all Finn wanted, who now knew that his most powerful and bitterest enemy was completely at his mercy. Question: Why will Far Rua avoid Finn in the future? Answer: Finn will be much stronger than Far Rua.
Context: He had never heard such music since the hour that he was born. So he blessed the little white singing-bird, and gladly went his way. Question: What did the Abbot hear singing? Answer: a small bird
Context: With this he wandered out into the crab settlement and crept about as slyly as possible near the crab's house and tried to hear the neighbors' gossip round about. He wanted to find out what the crabs were saying about their chief's death, for the old crab had been the chief of the tribe. Question: Why would the other crabs be speaking about the crab's death? Answer: The old crab had been the chief of the tribe.
Context: The story went on, but the story-teller never once looked at the prince, even through her veil, though he on his side never moved his eyes from her. When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree, the king's son could restrain himself no longer. Question: How did the prince feel after he recognized his wife? Answer: astonished
Context: "But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift, do not repel him, or kill him?" Last year (though it was a shame to me that I, who am the high King over all Ireland, should not be able myself to defend Tara) I summoned Gaul mac Morna and all the Fians to my assistance. Question: Why did the king send the women and children out of Tara? Answer: Allen was coming.
Context: One day Shiro was heard barking for a long time in the field at the back of his master's house. Here he began to dig very industriously with his paws, yelping with joy all the time. Question: Why was Shiro barking and digging? Answer: There was something in the ground.
Context: "What is the use of all my capabilities," sighed the old lamp, "when I cannot obtain any wax lights? The larger pieces were burned, and the smaller ones the old woman kept for waxing her thread. Question: Why could the lamp still not share its powers? Answer: because no one knew to put wax tapers on the lamp
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: Where had the evil one been out on? Answer: the farm where the newly wedded couple live
Context: When he came to court they at once took him on as a herdsman. As long as Peter was on the common or in the enclosure, he kept his hares together nicely, but later, when they reached the forest, they ran away from him across the hills. Question: Why was the place not bad? Answer: There was good food, and good wages, and the chance of winning the princess besides.
Context: There was also in the house a ram with a white belly, a jet-black head, dark-green horns, and green feet; and there was in the end of the house a hag covered with a dark ash-coloured garment. The man at the door-post welcomed us; and we five, having our five hounds with us, sat on the floor of the bruighean. ' I could be but with difficulty recognised; and the lamentation of Caoilte on account of my being in that condition was greater than that he had before given vent to on account of my thirst. Question: What did the man at the door-post tell Caoilte to do after Fionn was poisoned? Answer: go out and bring a drink from the other fountain
Context: So he came up on deck, out of the cabin, and took a look at the weather. Then he called the ship's carpenter and several others, and told them to go down at once into the ship's hold, and bore two holes in the ship's bottom. He worked and sweat, and the perspiration ran down his cheeks in such streams that one might have run a mill with them, but he merely kept on pumping out of the North Sea into the North Sea. Question: Why did the master mariner tell the men to drill holes in the ship and allow water to rise in the pipes? Answer: to trick the devil
Context: They ate and drank and enjoyed themselves, and then slept far into the next day. There was much to see and still more to take, as you may believe. " You must choose none among all the things you have seen," answered the prince, "but my father wears a ring on his little finger, and you must ask him for that." Question: Why did the youth speak to the prince before deciding? Answer: The prince knew what was most valuable.
Context: I took a bar of iron, and put it in the fire till it was red, and I said to the hag, "He will be howling at first, but will fall asleep presently, and do not wake him until he has slept as much as he wants. I was well satisfied, and I had no liking for delay to get myself free from the hag, and I took them on board the ship, and the child I had myself. Question: Who were the young men and women? Answer: the offspring of the one king
Context: No sooner was the old man buried than Martin and Michael agreed that they would go into the world together to seek their fortunes, while Jack stayed at home with their mother. This made his brothers very angry, for the day was hot and the bags were heavy, and about noon they sat down under a tree and began to eat. Question: Why did the mother send Jack to go along with his brothers? Answer: There was no work for Jack to do.
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: What did Sheen tell Murtough he must never do? Answer: Her name must never be uttered, nor must any man or woman learn it.
Context: And now he met women who were carrying their basket-work, and painted paddles, and little boys, with their embellished war-clubs and bows and arrows, the gift of their friends. With this mighty throng, Bokwewa was borne along for two days and nights, when he arrived at a country so still and shining, and so beautiful in its woods and groves and plains, that he knew it was here that he should find the lost spirit-wife. Question: Where did Bokwewa find the spirit-wife? Answer: in his native land
Context: Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy, and had the smith make an iron ax of five hundred-weights. When he came to the king's castle, there stood the king with the master carpenter in the entrance, and they were ready to give him a warm reception, because of the destruction he had wrought in the forest. After he had eaten that, then he could wait a while, said Murmur Goose-Egg. When at last dinner was ready, they sent him out into the field, to call the help. Question: Why did the king want to get rid of Murmur Goose-Egg? Answer: Murmur Goose-Egg was destructive.
Context: "In the course of your journey you will come to a large grape-vine lying across your path. You will next come to something that looks like bear's fat, of which you are so fond. Question: What made the grape-vine dangerous? Answer: Its fruit was poisonous.
Context: The princess replied that this could be arranged, and then she received the golden apple. But when the maiden came into the prince's room in the evening, he was sleeping soundly. Question: How did the maiden feel when she could not wake the prince? Answer: sad
Context: Just as I was falling asleep last night, I heard a horse's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door, and there, when I came out, was a fine-looking dark man, mounted on a black horse, and he told me to get ready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. The lady clapped her hands, and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and the baby, and praised me, and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over. Question: Where did the fine-looking dark man take the neighbor to? Answer: a bedroom
Context: This little incident made the clever Emperor think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and his men over the river in the same way that the leaf had carried over the spider. He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat. Question: How did Kotei feel to put a stop to the war? Answer: proud
Context: Some of the walls were four feet thick, and there used to be queer noises inside them, as if there might be a little secret staircase. Certainly there were odd little jagged doorways in the wainscot, and things disappeared at night--especially cheese and bacon. Question: Why were Moppet and Mittens able to push open the cupboard? Answer: The  door was not locked.
Context: It has plenty of feathers and plenty of fat, and would look well tied to a string, or paddling in the water at our place. Now here is an opportunity, and, if possible, I will get it for her. Question: What was the peasant's primary reason behind purchasing the goose? Answer: The wife has always wanted a goose.
Context: Once upon a time there lived a peasant called Ivan, and he had a wife whose name was Marie. When it had all fallen, and the sun was shining again, the children ran out into the street to play, and the old man and his wife sat at their window and gazed at them. The children first made a sort of little terrace, and stamped it hard and firm, and then they began to make a snow woman. Question: Why did the Ivan and Marie make a snow-child? Answer: pretend it is a living one
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: What happened as soon as Setanta was able to understand stories? Answer: He evinced a passion for arms and the martial life.
Context: And so they laughed and jeered, and it was so hot that the bear said, 'The enemy won't be here at this rate for many hours to come. When the cat saw the wild boar's ear, she pounced upon it, thinking it was a mouse in the straw. Question: Why did the cat pounce upon the wild boar's ear? Answer: thinking that it was a mouse in the straw
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: Who will the father say will be in the land? Answer: Brown Allree
Context: "Alas, I forgot one of my gloves where we stopped, and now my hand is freezing!" "Well, Blessom, you'll have to make the best of it," said the man. " Question: What happened because John forgot one of his gloves? Answer: His hand was freezing.
Context: The maiden then mounted the horse, and again rode a long, long time. But I will loan you my horse, and you may ride on it to the East Wind and ask him. Question: Who might blow the maiden to the castle? Answer: East Wind
Context: Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had only one son; but one who was so lazy and clumsy that he did not want to do a stroke of work. " But at the end of the three years, his master was to go into town, two days in succession, and buy the first thing he saw, and on the third morning the youth himself was to go to town and also buy the first thing he met. Question: Who was willing to take on the youth as a servant? Answer: a rich man
Context: When he got back, he showed the arm to his comrades, who one and all called him the hero of their band and gave him a great feast. He felt sure that one day or other, as soon as the ogre got over his scare, he would come to try to get his arm back again. Question: What happened because Watanabe knew the ogre was still alive? Answer: He grew uneasy as to how he should keep the arm in safety.
Context: She then brought Far Rua down to see the place, which was then all one solid rock; and after looking at it for some time, he cracked his right middle finger nine times, and, stooping down, tore a cleft about four hundred feet deep and a quarter of a mile in length, which has since been christened by the name of Lumford's Glen. She accordingly brought him in, and placing half a dozen of the cakes we spoke of before him, together with a can or two of butter, a side of boiled bacon, and a stack of cabbage, she desired him to help himself--for this, be it known, was long before the invention of potatoes. Question: Why did Oonagh treat Far Rua kindly in her house? Answer: If she didn't do it, Finn would not be pleased with her.
Context: There was a fiery dragon in that country, and he used to come every seven years, and unless there would be a young woman ready bound before him he would drive the sea through the land, and he would destroy the people. But when he got them all gone he went to the castle of the three giants, and he put a saddle on the best steed they had, and a fine suit on himself, and he took the first giant's sword in his hand, and he went to where the dragon was. Question: Why was the King's daughter bound? Answer: the dragon would not take any other woman
Context: "Ah, my son," said the father, at last, "if you are afraid to go to the river, you will never kill the Red Head." He took that course, and coming to the spot where the arrow had fallen, he was rejoiced to find it piercing the heart of a deer. Question: What happened to the stripling after his father said the stripling would never kill the Red Head? Answer: He mused in silence. He sat by the lodge door all the night through, looking up at the stars, and sighing like one sorely distressed.
Context: Long, long ago, one bright autumn day in Japan, it happened, that a pink-faced monkey and a yellow crab were playing together along the bank of a river. Then the monkey held up his persimmon-seed and said:  "I also have found something good! Question: What did the monkey find? Answer: a persimmon-seed
Context: So she did not dare to refuse any longer, and brought out as much money as he could possibly carry in his knapsack. Now no sooner had he gone than the devil came home, and when he learned that Murmur had taken along a big bag of money. Question: How did the devil feel when he heard what Murmur had done? Answer: angry
Context: It happened that an old sick man who lived near by had begged to be carried out and to be laid at the foot of the wall so that the beams of the rising sun might fall upon him, and he would be able to talk with his friends as they passed by to their work. 'I will hear you one by one,' he said, and motioned the younger brother to begin. In answer, the poor man told, in a few words, how he had begged the houses from his brother, and produced the deed of gift which made him their owner. Question: How did the two young men feel after the elder brother landed on their father? Answer: mad
Context: Then the scholar said: "I have a means of driving away old age!" Then his son and the older grand-children
came up and all asked for a drink of the wine. Question: What did the Liu Tschen send the emperor? Answer: his magic wine
Context: Seven years had passed, and the king was expected home from the war. They let them down from the tower at night, to seek their fortune in the wide, wide world. Question: Why were the children let down from the tower at night? Answer: to seek their fortune in the wide, wide world
Context: Uraschimataro was still so puzzled with the adventures that had befallen him, that he waited in a dazed condition for what would happen next. she asked, smiling, looking all the while as fair as the sun itself. Question: Why did the princess wish to see Uraschimataro? Answer: The turtle who had talked so much of him to the princess.
Context: So Grethel gave Hans a needle; and then he said, "Good-bye, Grethel," and she said, "Good-bye, Hans." Hans carried the needle away with him, and stuck it in a hay-cart that was going along, and he followed it home. Question: What did Grethel give Hans? Answer: A needle
Context: 'Don't talk so load, or you'll wake her,'said the old toad. ' She can't run away from us there, whilst we are preparing the guest-chamber under the marsh where she shall live.' Question: Where did the old toad want Thumbelina to live? Answer: the guest-chamber under the marsh
Context: When they both reached the spot, the monkey was astonished to see what a fine tree had sprung from the seed, and with what a number of ripe persimmons the branches were loaded. Not one would he give to the poor hungry crab waiting below, and when he had finished there was little but the hard, unripe fruit left. Question: Why did the monkey take all the best persimmons for himself? Answer: He was greedy.
Context: On the third morning the giant went off again with his goats. " You claim that she belongs to you, but perhaps, in spite of it, she may tell me what to do," and with that he went in to her. And if he asks how much you want, you must tell him as much as you can carry." Question: Why did the king's son go to the Master Girl? Answer: He did not know how much to ask for.
Context: It was the first time for long that the two men had come face to face, and they looked at each other in silence. Then tears rose in the eyes of the elder, but winking them hastily away, he said:  'Brother, it is not needful that I should tell you how poor I am; you can see that for yourself. Question: Why did the elder son want his younger brother's unfinished houses? Answer: save their money on rent
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: Why wasn't Earl St. Clair afraid of the sounds he heard? Answer: He trusted in the Might of the Sign he bore.
Context: And he told the king's son he was to fetch his horse from the pasture, and when he had done this, he might rest: "For you have come to a kind master," said he. " Yet it is not an easy matter to ride this horse home," said the Master Girl, "but I will tell you how to set about it. Then he stood still, as gentle as a young lamb, and he had no trouble bringing him to the stable. Question: What did the giant do the next morning? Answer: went off again with his goats
Context: Long, long ago in Kyoto, the people of the city were terrified by accounts of a dreadful ogre, who, it was said, haunted the Gate of Rashomon at twilight and seized whoever passed by. The missing victims were never seen again, so it was whispered that the ogre was a horrible cannibal, who not only killed the unhappy victims but ate them also. Question: Who was in great fear? Answer: everybody in the town and neighborhood
Context: "That is the reward for your service," said Mother Hulda, and shut the door. So the lazy girl came home all covered with pitch, and the cock on the top of the well seeing her, cried,      "Cock-a-doodle doo! Question: What did the cock call the lazy girl? Answer: dirty girl
Context: Unluckily he had a hasty temper, and did not stop to reason, and, instead of sending to the town, and discovering people who knew his daughter-in-law and could have told him how hard she had worked and how poor she had been, he believed all the brother's lying words, and made the queen believe them too. Together they took counsel what they should do, and in the end they decided that they also would put her out of the town. Question: Why was the brother dissatisfied with his sister's punishment? Answer: He wanted her to have a harsher punishment.
Context: So Murmur Goose-Egg began to chop fire-wood, and hewed to the line in such fashion that the chips fairly flew. Before long he had chopped up all that there was, kindling wood and building wood, beams and boards, and when he was through with it, he came and asked what he was to do now. Question: What was Murmur Goose-Egg's first task? Answer: chop fire-wood
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: What did Conan tell O Fionn to win? Answer: victory and blessings
Context: Months passed and no news came from Rose of Evening, so that Aduan went about full of longing and despair. But the indwellers of the castle were so strictly watched that he could not see Rose of Evening even a single time. Question: How did Aduan feel when he could not see Rose of Evening for months? Answer: sad
Context: She had been sitting in her arm-chair, telling us a long, beautiful tale; and when it was finished, she said she was tired, and leaned her head back to sleep awhile. She was laid in a black coffin, looking mild and beautiful in the white folds of the shrouded linen, though her eyes were closed; but every wrinkle had vanished, her hair looked white and silvery, and around her mouth lingered a sweet smile. Question: How did the children feel when they looked at Grandmother's corpse? Answer: not afraid
Context: When the peasant heard that, he went right to work pulling down his stable, to put it up again in another place. But one morning, when the milk-maid went into the stable, the dog was gone, and with him all the cows and the calves. Question: How did the peasant know his neighbor was helping him? Answer: At night, when all slept, the building of the new stable went forward just as it did by day.
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: Why did Morraha not speak a word when Brown Allree bent her head down? Answer: HIs wife told him not to speak until the beast spoke first.
Context: Then the King could contain himself no longer, but rushed towards her, saying,  "You are no other than my dear wife!" Then she answered,  "Yes, I am your dear wife," and in that moment, by the grace of heaven, her life returned to her, and she was once more well and strong. Question: What happened when the Queen said "I am your dear wife"? Answer: her life returned to her
Context: In the centre of the large apartment a great troop of Fairies, Elves, and Sprites were dancing reels as hard as they could to the music of a tiny set of bagpipes. When they saw that he was not hurt, they bowed gravely and bade him be seated. Question: How did the fairies feel when Farquhar came suddenly down in their midst? Answer: surprised
Context: So Jonas and Lena used to say of him 'Look, there goes Walter, who shoots the wolves.' He had besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle, to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon as he had killed them. Question: Why did Walter have a red cock's feather to put in his cap? Answer: to make himself look fierce
Context: "O, only a little, but my fast has hardly been broken," said the cat. " I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat, and I am thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said she, and she seized the man and ate him up. Question: Where did the cat go after she ate the man up? Answer: the stable
Context: The eyes of the two old people were filled with tears and their voices trembled as they said:  "Go with all care and speed. Momotaro was very sorry to leave his old parents (though he knew he was coming back as soon as he could), for he thought of how lonely they would be while he was away. Question: What did the old people do when they parted with Momotaro? Answer: cried
Context: The maids saw that there was some hocus-pocus about it, gave her clothes, ran off to fetch the youth who had been sent to find the most beautiful princess in twelve kingdoms, and told him their story. When he saw the beautiful princess, he fell so deeply in love with her that he wanted to marry her out of hand, and when he heard how badly the swart, homely cook had treated her, the latter was promptly punished. Question: Why did the king decide to punish the homely cook? Answer: He heard how badly the swart, homely cook had treated the princess.
Context: On the same day the two brothers set out on their journey to the city, the rich one on horseback, with plenty of food in his knapsack, the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onions to eat on the way. The lights turned out to have been placed there by a farmer, who had planned to have a particularly good supper as it was his wife's birthday, and bade the rich man enter and sit down, while he himself took the horse to the stable. Question: What did the farmer's wife want from the elder brother? Answer: one of the onions
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: Why would the younger brother rather have stayed where he was? Answer: He soon got tired of the country, and longed for a town life.
Context: Just as she said that she felt a large glass of milk between her fingers, and at the same time Aina cried out, 'Lisa! Scarcely had she spoken before she felt a nice soft bed by her side, and there beside Lisa was one too. Question: What did Aina wish for after she ate and drank? Answer: a nice soft bed
Context: He left his sister and traveled over the surface of the globe, and then went far down into the earth. The giant, who was a first cousin to Manabozho, and had already heard of the tricks which Dais-Imid had played upon his kinsman, regarded him with a stern look, and, catching him up in his hand, he threw him unceremoniously into the kettle. Question: Who was the first cousin of Manabozho? Answer: the giant manito
Context: But the spiritual part of Notscha, his soul, fluttered about in the air, and was driven by the wind to the cave of the Great One. It is because you are always thinking of him that he appears to you in dreams. Question: What did Notscha's mother do after Notscha appeared in her dream? Answer: erected a temple for Notscha without Li Dsing's knowledge
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. The wife he chose was very wealthy, but she was also very greedy, and however much she had, she always wanted more. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. The bride seemed full of interest in the houses, and asked a great many questions about them, so that her new relations liked her much better than they expected, and hoped they might be good friends. Question: What will happen after the bride decides to buy the unfinished houses? Answer: Her husband will not allow her to buy the houses.
Context: There was an old man living in the depth of a forest, with his grandson, whom he had taken in charge when quite an infant. He went into the edge of the woods one day, and saw a rabbit; but not knowing what it was, he ran home and described it to his grandfather. Question: What did the grandfather give the child as soon as he could play about? Answer: a bow and arrows
Context: She on her part did not know what he meant, for she had never heard of the superstition that by praying over an image it is possible to cause the death of a hated person. As for me I do not know-no, not so much as a dew-drop, of the evil thing of which you accuse me." Question: What made the daughter confused at the father's words? Answer: She had never heard of the superstition that by praying over an image it is possible to cause the death of a hated person.
Context: When mass had been said, the schoolmaster was invited to the parsonage. When he had drunk his coffee, the wife and daughter drew him aside into another room, and the wife complained that her husband had grown so old and decrepit that he could not keep up much longer. Question: What did the parsonage have? Answer: a garden with glowers and apple-trees, with a neat lattice fence around it
Context: Once upon a time there dwelt in the land of Erin a young man who was seeking a wife. So on a fine day the girl and her husband, and the father and his wife all went out upon the moor. Question: Who was seeking a wife? Answer: a young man
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: What did the wolf do when he saw the sign of the king among the men? Answer: made for him
Context: Many, many years ago there lived in Nara, the ancient Capital of Japan, a wise State minister, by name Prince Toyonari Fujiwara. This made them very unhappy, for they both longed to see a child of their own who would grow up to gladden their old age, carry on the family name, and keep up the ancestral rites when they were dead. Question: Why did the Prince and his lovely wife go to the temple of Hase-no-Kwannon? Answer: They believed the Mother of Mercy comes to answer the prayers of mortals in the from that they need the most.
Context: His parents and friends raised their voices in loud lamentation; they clung to him, and as a special favor, which he could now grant, being himself a spirit, he allowed them to accompany him to the sand-banks. They looked again; a red flame, as if the sun had glanced on a billow, lighted the spot for an instant; but the Feather of Flames, Wassamo of the Fire-Plume, had disappeared from home and kindred, and the familiar paths of his youth, forever. Question: What was the special favor Wassamo could now grant? Answer: Wassamo allowed his parents and friends to accompany him to the sand-banks.
Context: Strange to say, as soon as she began to repeat this little song the peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman was standing, till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she was able to take it up in her hands. She could not go on with her work, so happy and excited was she, so she put all the clothes back in her bamboo basket, and with the basket on her back and the peach in her hand she hurried homewards. Question: What made the woman happy and excited? Answer: She got the peach.
Context: The next morning he got up with the sun, and said to the old man and to the old woman and to his wife:  'Farewell: my foot shall not return to the house till I have found other three people as silly as you.' He walked away till he came to the town, and seeing the door of a cottage standing open wide. Question: What did the young man do after he got up the next morning? Answer: left his home
Context: I see that you can no longer live without me, and I thank you. At times he had to crawl, at others he had to stoop, for the way was very narrow. But when it grew better, he walked in advance, and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off. Question: What did the youth hear once after walking in advance? Answer: a clear, beautiful voice
Context: The following day the Prince of the Dragon's Cave held a review of his dancers. When the dance began, tremendous waves spouted up to the very skies, and then fell down again like star-glimmer which scatters in the air. Question: What did the dancers do for the dance of the Ogres? Answer: beat upon enormous cymbals
Context: Walter is six years old, and he must soon begin to go to school. He was wonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at home with his brothers and sister, then he used often to say 'One wolf is nothing, there ought to be at least four.' Question: What couldn't Walter do? Answer: read
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: What did the man have to do every year? Answer: come to the king's court every year, and the child with him
Context: At this moment the wind came rushing round the corner of the street and through the air-holes of the old lamp. " I will blow into your brain, so that in future not only shall you be able to remember all that you have seen or heard in the past, but your light within shall be so bright that you will be able to understand all that is said or done in your presence." " Question: What will the wind's present do? Answer: help the street lamp remember
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: What did Fionn find when he woke up? Answer: his men restored to their own shape
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: What happened after the king heard who they were? Answer: He smothered them with kisses and drowned them with tears, and dried them with fine cloths, silken, and the hairs of his own head.
Context: "I want to find the lodge with the wicked young women in it, who slay travellers and steal their trappings," answered Ko-ko. Ko-ko looked around for the door in a very owlish way, and heaving a short hem from his chest, he acknowledged that he had heard something to that effect down in one of the villages. Ko-ko turned about and laughed to scorn the proposal, and putting forth his right foot from the lodge first, an observance in which he had great hopes, he started for the lodge of the wicked father. Question: Why did Ko-ko reject the old woman's help? Answer: He wanted to be better and braver than Onwee.
Context: "Better," said she, "now that your clothes are dry, to think no more of the ducking than to go and all four of you get your heads broken, as you surely will. The little spirit or boy-man heard them roaring forth their threats as they approached, but he did not appear to be disquieted in the least. Question: How did the sister feel when she saw four large men coming? Answer: great fear
Context: She entered her lodge and laid off her mantle, which was entirely composed of the scalps of women. Before folding it, she shook it several times, and at every shake the scalps uttered loud shouts of laughter, in which the old hag joined. Question: What did the witch tell Strong Desire? Answer: She had known him from the time he had left his father's lodge, and had watched his movements.
Context: At last King Keiko ordered his younger son Prince Yamato to subdue the brigands and, if possible, to rid the land of their evil lives. Prince Yamato was only sixteen years of age, he had but reached his manhood according to the law, yet though he was such a youth in years he possessed the dauntless spirit of a warrior of fuller age and knew not what fear was. Question: What did King Keiko want Prince Yamato to do? Answer: subdue the brigands and, if possible, to rid the land of their evil lives
Context: On the morrow when he went to reap the wheat he found nothing but the bare straw. On the morrow the ears had gone, and there was nothing but the bare straw. Question: Why did Manawyddan hide himself and wait? Answer: He wanted to see who took his crops.
Context: Now when Si-Men entered into office, he heard of this evil custom. He said: "See to it that you let me know when the day of the river-god's wedding comes. Question: What did Si-Men do when he entered into office? Answer: told the sorcerers he would be present to honor the god
Context: On the third morning the giant went off again with his goats. " You claim that she belongs to you, but perhaps, in spite of it, she may tell me what to do," and with that he went in to her. And if he asks how much you want, you must tell him as much as you can carry." Question: What would the king's son be allowed to do once he fetched the giant's tribute? Answer: rest of the remainder of the time
Context: Then Murmur Goose-Egg went into the smithy, and had the smith make an iron ax of five hundred-weights. He chopped down big pine and fir trees, as thick as masts, and all that he found on the king's ground, as well as what he found on that of his neighbors. Question: What did the king do because Murmur was so strong and he was frightened? Answer: handle him with care
Context: But Sheen went gladly and light-heartedly into the House of Cletty, and when she saw the lovely lightsome house and the goodly nobles of the clan of Niall, and the feasting and banqueting and the playing of the minstrels and all the joyous noise of that kingly dwelling, her heart was lifted within her, and "Fair as a fairy palace is this house of Cletty," said she. "Fair, indeed, it is," replied the King; "for neither the Kings of Leinster nor the Kings of mighty Ulster, nor the lords of the clans of Owen or of Niall, have such a house as this; nay, in Tara of the Kings itself, no house to equal this house of mine is found." Question: What happened when Sheen saw the house, nobles, and feasting? Answer: Her heart was lifted within her, and "Fair as a fairy palace is this house of Cletty," said she.
Context: "Oh, what advantage has your tree over mine, on which there are three rods of magic and mastery growing?" She was greatly delighted, and she asked me to go home, and she gave orders to the cook to have breakfast ready at six o'clock in the morning. She struck a second blow on me, and made of me a black raven, and she went home, and left me after her. Question: What happened after the wife struck a second blow to the man? Answer: She made of him a black rave, and she went home, and left me after her.
Context: One day Kung's friend came to him in a state of great excitement and said: "The owner of this house is coming back, and my father now wishes to return to Shensi. Kung wished to accompany them, but his friend advised him to return to his own home. Question: Why did Kung and the youth have to part ways? Answer: The owner of the house was coming back, and the youth's father wished to return to Shensi.
Context: So the third morning the youth set out for himself, and when he entered town, he came across the same old woman with her basket on her arm. " Well, you can take the whole blessed lot," said the old woman, "the basket and all that's in it. Question: What did the old woman tell the youth to do if he were to take the basket? Answer: not look into it before he got home
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: Where did the lad turn the dragon out? Answer: into the sea
Context: Therefore Notscha's mother sent him to the rear of the house to keep out of his father's sight. Notscha disappeared and went to his master, in order to ask him what he should do when the dragon returned. Question: How did Nostcha's mother feel when her son destroyed himself? Answer: sad
Context: "I'll call to him," she replied, "to come up to Cullamore and refresh himself, and maybe that will give you and Finn time to think of some plan to get yourselves out of the scrape. "I'll do that with a heart and a half," replied Oonagh; "and, indeed, Granua, I feel myself under great obligations to you for your kindness in keeping him off us till we see what can be done; for what would become of us all if anything happened to Finn, poor man!" Question: What did Granua want from Oonagh? Answer: fifteen or sixteen tubs, or the largest miscaun
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. The crab naturally did not see why he should give up his prize for a hard stone-like seed, and would not consent to the monkey's proposition. Question: Why did the monkey try to persuade the crab? Answer: He wanted the rice-dumpling.
Context: There they stood, looking towards the bridge of Thuar, in the dead of the night, with a little moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid. He looked, but could see nothing; and she stood trembling and her eyes wide open, looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola. " Question: What did the neighbor want to do after she saw the poor man's wife? Answer: walk on quietly, as if they suspected nothing, and when they were passing she would give him a shove
Context: At the time of the seven empires there lived a man by the name of Si-Men Bau, who was a governor on the Yellow River. The sorcerers and witches who dwelt there said: "Every year the river-god looks for a bride, who must be selected from among the people. Question: What will the river-god do when he cannot find a bride? Answer: Wind and rain will not come at the proper seasons, and there will be scanty crops and floods.
Context: The dog soon came into the lodge, and she set before him the dish of grape-juice. He rose up when he got into the open air, stood upon his hind legs, and looked about. " Question: Why did Spirit-Iron tell his young master that the old woman was not his mother? Answer: Spirit-Iron found his real mother.
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: Why did Sylvia change her mind about her gift? Answer: The longer she stayed the more she saw that Cynthia was not really happy.
Context: How will Mrs. Tittlemouse feel after seeing her house is a mess? Question: upset Answer: tale-of-mrs.tittlemouse
Context: I shall be happier in my present state than I could have been as a man. I will cheer you by my songs, and strive to inspire in others the joy and lightsomeness of heart I feel in my present state. Question: Where did Iadilla fly away to? Answer: a neighboring wood
Context: So soon as the crocodiles understood that this was a trick played upon them by the hare so as to enable him to cross the sea, and that the hare was now laughing at them for their stupidity, they became furiously angry and made up their minds to take revenge. When the crocodiles had pulled out the last bit of fur, they threw the poor hare on the beach, and all swam away laughing at what they had done. Question: Why did the crocodiles pull out the hare's fur? Answer: They were angry at the hare.
Context: But in summer time she was obliged to go barefooted because she was poor, and in winter she had to wear large wooden shoes, so that her little instep grew quite red. Just then a large old carriage came by, and in it sat an old lady; she looked at the little girl, and taking pity on her, said to the clergyman, "Look here, if you will give me the little girl, I will take care of her." Question: What was the little girl like? Answer: pretty and dainty
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: Why did the captain like the cabin-boy? Answer: He was quite at home on deck, was big, tall lad, and did not mind lending a hand when need arose.
Context: At these words the king, who had been feeling rather uncomfortable, took heart again, for had he not prepared two beautiful tombs for his son to see, so that he might never, never guess what had been done to his wife? Then the king led the way to the courtyard just behind the palace, and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stood two splendid tombs in a green space under the trees. Question: How will the king and queen feel after the prince mourns over his wife's and child's death? Answer: ashamed
Context: As the warrior stood in the porch taking leave, a train of fish was suddenly transformed into a retinue of men, all wearing ceremonial robes and dragon's crowns on their heads to show that they were servants of the great Dragon King. The presents that they carried were as follows:  First, a large bronze bell. Question: How many presents were given to Hidesato? Answer: five
Context: The brave Wunzh felt that his strength of body was even less than on the day before, but the courage of his mind seemed to grow. Sitting down beside the youth, he began to deliver his instructions to him and to inform him in what manner he should proceed to take advantage of his victory. Question: What did the stranger do in Wunzh's fasting-lodge? Answer: delivered instructions to Wunzh and informed him in what manner he should proceed to take advantage of his victory
Context: Taking advantage of a moment when he was not watched, he went away, thundering along on his rolling wheels to Li Dsing's dwelling. At the height of his extremity, however, the holy Wen Dschu of the Hill of the Five Dragons, the master of Gintscha, Li Dsing's oldest son, stepped forth and hid Li Dsing in his cave. Question: What happened after Mutscha came to his father's aid? Answer: A violent quarrel took place between the brothers; they began to fight, and Mutscha was overcome; while Notscha once more rushed in pursuit of Li Dsing.
Context: It was so pale, the small eyes had closed themselves, and it drew its breath so softly, now and then, with a deep respiration, as if it sighed. The old man sat and rocked the cradle, and the mother sat down on a chair close by him, and looked at her little sick child that drew its breath so deep, and raised its little hand. Question: What did the mother pour into a pot? Answer: some ale
Context: One day Shiro was heard barking for a long time in the field at the back of his master's house. Here he began to dig very industriously with his paws, yelping with joy all the time. Question: What did Shiro do when he saw his master? Answer: ran to meet him, wagging his tail. Seizing the end of his kimono, he dragged him under a large yenoki tree
Context: The little lady was a dancer, and she stretched out both her arms, and raised one of her legs so high, that the tin soldier could not see it at all, and he thought that she, like himself, had only one leg. " That is the wife for me," he thought; "but she is too grand, and lives in a castle, while I have only a box to live in, five-and-twenty of us altogether, that is no place for her. Question: Why does the tin soldier think she is the wife for him? Answer: he thinks she only has one leg like him
Context: But when he got home to the castle, one of his brothers was just getting married, and the bride and all the guests were already there. But he acted as though he saw none of them, led out the horses, and began to put them to the coach. So the king had to go to her himself, and then she went along with him at once, and the king saw very well that she was more than she appeared to be, and gave her a place at the head of the table, next to the young bridegroom. The witch who had rolled the apple over to him was duly punished. Question: Why was the witch punished? Answer: She had tricked the king's son.
Context: As midnight drew nigh, he heard far away in the north, out of the mountains of Slieve Gullion, a fairy tune played, soft, low, and slow, as if on a silver flute; and at the same time the roar of Conn the Hundred-Fighter, and the voice of Gaul like thunder, and the responsive shouts of the captains, and the clamour of the host, for the host shouted all together, and clashed their swords against their shields in fierce defiance, when in spite of all obstructions the fairy music of the enchanter began to steal into their souls. Then the roar of the host slowly faded away as in a dream, though the captains were still shouting, and two-thirds of the torches fell to the ground. Question: What happened to the torches after the fairy tune was played? Answer: two-thirds of the torches fell to the ground
Context: "She's thick, and fat and ugly," said the young green Frogs. " But the little Toads kicked up their hind legs from mere pride, for each of them thought that he must have the jewel. Question: How did the young toads respond to the mother-Toad's response? Answer: they made grimaces.
Context: The top saw it flying high in the air, like a bird, till it would go quite out of sight. But the ninth time it rose in the air, it remained away, and did not return. Question: What happened to the ball every time it touched the earth while flying in the air? Answer: It gave a higher leap than before.
Context: and the girl answered, between her sobs:  'When I came in and saw the pack-saddle over my head, I thought how dreadful it would be if it fell and killed me.' Something strange must have occurred,' exclaimed the old farmer on the moor, who by this time was not only hungry, but cross. ' Question: How will the old farmer feel after the young woman and mother did not come back? Answer: cross
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' But though I can't take money,' says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.' Question: How did Saint Kavin make money? Answer: by making old things as good as new
Context: "I wonder why grandmother looks at the withered flower in the old book that way? Why, when grandmother's tears fall upon the rose, and she is looking at it, the rose revives, and fills the room with its fragrance; the walls vanish as in a mist, and all around her is the glorious green wood, where in summer the sunlight streams through thick foliage; and grandmother, why she is young again, a charming maiden, fresh as a rose, with round, rosy cheeks, fair, bright ringlets, and a figure pretty and graceful; but the eyes, those mild, saintly eyes, are the same,--they have been left to grandmother. Question: Who sits next to Grandmother in her memory? Answer: a young man
Context: When he got back he began to feel ill and to have burning pains in his feet, so he knew that the serpent had poisoned him. He now hastened to the temples of Ise, where you will remember that he prayed before undertaking this long expedition. Question: What made Yamato feel his strength come again? Answer: bathed daily in the hot mineral spring water
Context: He found himself, according to his ideas, in the land of Topsyturvydom. All the things to which he had been accustomed as food they rejected. Question: How did Sentaro feel when he heard of the people's longing for death? Answer: confused
Context: But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what wanted. So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile, and said:  "Oh, Mr. Crocodile, isn't it a lovely day?" Question: Why did the crocodile swim near to the shore? Answer: to speak with the hare
Context: "I should really have voted for myself," said the mule, "if I had not been one of the judges on the committee. I observed the well-grown ears of the hare; it is a pleasure to me to observe how long they are. Question: Why did the mule vote for the hare? Answer: because of the beauty of his ears
Context: Strange to say, as soon as she began to repeat this little song the peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman was standing, till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she was able to take it up in her hands. She could not go on with her work, so happy and excited was she, so she put all the clothes back in her bamboo basket, and with the basket on her back and the peach in her hand she hurried homewards. Question: How did the woman feel when she got the peach? Answer: delighted
Context: The man set out as early as possible, and had not as yet reached town before he met the old woman with the basket. " I do not fare so badly this way," thought the man, "but when he sets out for himself, then the matter will probably turn out differently." Question: Who did the man meet before he reached town? Answer: the old woman with the basket
Context: After a short time, the woman heard the cry of the dog, and running home as fast as she could, she found her child gone, and the dog too. The mother hurried off at full speed in pursuit, and as she flew along, she came, from time to time, to lodges inhabited by old women, who told her at what time the child-thief had passed; they also gave her shoes that she might follow on. Question: What did the old women give the mother? Answer: shoes that she might follow on
Context: said Murmur Goose-Egg, when he had reached the royal castle, and he flung down the knapsack full of money before the king, so that the whole castle tottered. The king thanked him kindly, and promised him a good reward, and a good character, if he wanted it; but Murmur only wanted more work to do. Question: What happened when Murmur flung down the knapsack of money? Answer: The whole castle tottered.
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: What did everyone do after Thomas disappeared? Answer: made a careful search
Context: Directly ahead of him lay a field of barley, with ears so large and heavy that he had never seen their like. Through the barley-field a narrow path led to a green turf-roofed cottage of clay, that rose above the field. Question: Who sat before the door? Answer: a little man
Context: But the ram was still angry, and refused to say anything, so the sheep stopped talking and began to scatter over the pasture and eat the tender, new grass. By and by the Black Sheep wandered near the lane, and looking up, saw the little boy watching it through the bars. Question: Why did the Black Sheep look funny? Answer: They cut off his wool.
Context: 'It's well for you,' says Saint Kavin, mighty sharp--'it's well for you, King O'Toole, that you said that word,' says he. ' Well, when the King was as good as his word, Saint Kavin was pleased with him, and then it was that he made himself known to the King. The goose flew round every individual acre o' King O'Toole's property, you see, bein' let into the secret by Saint Kavin, who was mighty cute. Question: What did the goose catch by mistake? Answer: a thieving horse-eel
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: Why did Princess Terute wish Hase-Hime was not there? Answer: Her son would have all the love of his father.
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: What did Thomas do after he went out? Answer: walked straight up to the snow-white Hart and Hind
Context: When they grew tired of this, they told each other stories of all their exploits of which they were proud, and then played games together; and Momotaro found much to amuse him in listening to the three animals and watching their antics, and in this way he forgot that the way was long and that he was tired of the voyage and of doing nothing. He longed to be at work killing the monsters who had done so much harm in his country. Question: What did Momotaro long to do? Answer: kill the monsters
Context: He said there was nothing so much to wonder at as that I cut the hand off, and I tied. The King cried to go out and find the child, that he had got loose from the dog. When summer came I said I would try and go home to my own country. Oh," said he; "oh, my heart's love, my shaggy papa, come here till I see you." I was afraid the woman would see me, as she was asking the child where he saw me, and he said I was up in a tree. When he saw a man standing before him he gave a cry, and I took him up in my arms. Question: How will the wolf's child feel when he sees his papa? Answer: happy
Context: "Yes, it is a very valuable whistle," said Esben, "and I will not sell it," but at last, as a favor to her, he said he would let her have it if she gave him two hundred dollars, and a kiss for every dollar to boot. On the following day the queen herself set out, and she felt quite sure that she would succeed in coaxing the whistle away from him. Question: How did the princess feel when the whistle disappeared? Answer: disappointed
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: Where did the wolf take the prince? Answer: where the giants live
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: He began to feel hungry, so he opened his bag and took out one of the rice-cakes and sat down under a tree by the side of the road to eat it. If you leave me all the cakes you have in your bag you may go; otherwise I will bite you till I kill you!" Question: Why was the dog angry? Answer: Momotaro did not ask permission to pass the field.
Context: He turned round with a start to see the little woman with the green dress and scarlet stockings, who had remonstrated with him for lifting the turf the year before, standing by his side. "The divots which you took from the roof of my house have grown once more," she said, "and once more it is covered with grass. Question: What did the poor man need to do before he could leave? Answer: He could not tell anyone what happened while he was with the Fairies.
Context: The farmer's trouble and patience was rewarded, for one fine day on going his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug for that purpose. When he reached the house the farmer said to his wife:  "I have at last caught the bad badger. Question: How did the farmer catch the badger? Answer: He dug a hole.
Context: Taken by surprise, she could hardly realize that it was her own dear father who was calling her, and for a moment she was utterly bereft of the power to speak or move. was all she could say, and running to him she caught hold of his thick sleeve, and burying her face burst into a passion of tears. Question: How did Hase-Hime feel when she saw her father? Answer: happy
Context: "You must think it strange that I want to go away," said Momotaro, "because I have not yet told you my reason. I must go and conquer them and bring back all the plunder of which they have robbed this land. Question: What was northeast of Japan? Answer: an island in the sea
Context: He went away, then, and he left the horse and the sword and the suit of armour in the place where he found them, and when the gentleman and the other people came home he was sitting before them at the fire. When the King's daughter came home she said that she would never marry a man but the man whom that shoe would fit. Question: What did the king's daughter say when she came home? Answer: She would never marry a man but the man whom that shoe would fit.
Context: One day there was much excitement in the home, for the father had been suddenly summoned to the capital on business. Indeed, in those days it was as great an undertaking to go up to the capital as it is for a Japanese to make a voyage to Europe now. Question: What kind of journey was that from Matsuyama to Kyoto? Answer: difficult
Context: John Blessom once upon a time had gone down to Copenhagen to carry on a suit at law, for in those days one could not get justice in the land of Norroway; and if a man wanted his rights, there was nothing left for him to do but to travel to Copenhagen. Now it chanced that on Christmas Eve John had had speech with the gentleman in authority, and had attended to his business, and was going along the street in a low-spirited manner, for he was homesick. Question: Why was John going along in a low-spirited manner? Answer: He was homesick.
Context: The Prince returned to his room in despair; then the Princess Hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee, and asked him, 'Why so sad, Prince Milan?' With these words she breathed on the window, and her breath froze on the pane. Question: Why did Hyacinthia say she and the Prince had to escape? Answer: The Magician would be after them.
Context: "But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift, do not repel him, or kill him?" Last year (though it was a shame to me that I, who am the high King over all Ireland, should not be able myself to defend Tara) I summoned Gaul mac Morna and all the Fians to my assistance. Question: What did the son of Midna play on his instruments? Answer: fairy music
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: Who was a strong, hearty man? Answer: the master
Context: The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: What did the hunter and his wife believe to be the reason for the mysterious females' behavior? Answer: The mysterious females might have been stricken with famine.
Context: He retraced his steps toward the skeleton, but to his surprise it had disappeared, and the tracks of the wearer of the ball were in another direction. Onwee, finding that he was closely followed, and that the hungry brother was approaching very fast, changed himself into a very old man, with two daughters, and living in a large lodge in the center of a beautiful garden, which was filled with every thing that could delight the eye, or was pleasant to the taste. Question: Why did Onwee fill the lodge with food? Answer: make the brother eat and lose his powers
Context: "I'm not asking anything at all except the loan of the sword that's under your bed," says he. "I don't see any tree in the wood bigger or uglier than yourself," says he, drawing the sword and whipping the head off him, so that he sent it seven furrows and seven ridges with that stroke. Question: What did the son ask from the giant? Answer: the loan of the sword that's under the giant's bed
Context: The old woman then gave to the young man the bones which were to secure his success; and she informed him with great care how he was to proceed. He bethought him of his guardian, and invoking his aid, and changing himself into a squirrel, he mounted nimbly up again, in the hope that the lodge would not now escape him. Question: What did Onwee do after he turned into a squirrel? Answer: mounted nimbly up again
Context: Ali Baba borrows his sister-in-law's scales to weigh this new wealth of gold coins. Cassim goes to the cave and enters with the magic words, but in his greed and excitement over the treasures forgets the magic words to get back out again. Question: Why does Ali Baba tell his brother about the cave? Answer: Under pressure from his brother, Ali Baba is forced to reveal the secret of the cave.
Context: 'Dan,' said the man in the moon, taking a pinch of snuff, when I was done, 'you must not stay here.' ' Faith, and with your leave,' says I, 'I'll not let go the grip, and the more you bids me the more I won't let go--so I will.' ' Question: Why did Daniel continue to hold the reaping-hook? Answer: The man on the moon did not want to help Daniel.
Context: Then the Prince suddenly recovered his memory, and cried:  "What can have made me forget such an important thing? "I thank you, beautiful Cat," said the Prince; "but what good will it do me to get back if I have not a dog to take to my father?" Question: How will the White Cat help the prince find a horse that will carry him for three days? Answer: She will give the prince a good wooden horse that could take the him to his country in twelve hours.
Context: To make the provisions they had laid in last the better, it was agreed among them that two of their number should go south; leaving the other three to watch over, feed, and protect their wounded brother. The travelers set forth, sorry to leave home, but resolved that the first promise of spring should bring them back again. Question: Why did two of the falcons go south? Answer: to make the provisions they had laid in last the better
Context: On another occasion, in the days of Kien Lung, the minister Dschou
Ling was ordered to install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands. When
the fleet was sailing by south of Korea, a storm arose, and his ship
was driven toward the Black Whirlpool. Question: How did the seamen and travelers feel when the ship was caught in the Black Whirlpool? Answer: scared
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: What did the bride resolve to do after she saw the houses? Answer: resolved to get them for herself
Context: It was certainly tiresome sometimes climbing over the fallen trees, and getting caught in the branches, and waging war with the juniper bushes and the midges, but what did that matter? The wood had been on fire once, and now raspberry bushes had grown up, and there were raspberry bushes and raspberry bushes as far as the eye could see. Question: How did Lisa and Aina feel climbing over the fallen trees? Answer: tired
Context: A long time passed, and with each succeeding day the king's daughter grew taller and more beautiful, and her father granted her every wish. She paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife. Question: How did the woman plan to marry the king? Answer: drew the young princess to her, paid her the most fulsome compliments on everything she said and did, and was forever bringing the conversation around to how happy she would be were the king to take another wife
Context: Osseo lived happy and contented in the parental lodge, and in due time his wife presented him with a son, who grew up rapidly, and in the very likeness of Osseo himself. He was very quick and ready in learning every thing that was done in his grandfather's dominions, but he wished also to learn the art of hunting, for he had heard that this was a favorite pursuit below. Question: What happened to Osseo's son after he suddenly dropped upon a high, breezy island in a large lake? Answer: His aunts and uncles followed him in the form of birds.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Who lived in a lovely palace? Answer: the Flower Fairy
Context: Another evening, when they were all so happy, and the prince dandling the baby, a beautiful greyhound stood before them, took the child out of the father's hand, and was out of the door before you could wink. The princess opened her eyes in a great fright and stared at her, and while she was doing so, the lady wrapped a shawl round the baby that was sitting in its father's lap, and either sank through the ground with it or went up through the wide chimney. Question: Why did the youngest princess believe it was her husband's fault? Answer: There were some of the servants in the next room, and all declared that neither child nor dog passed out.
Context: The worst of it was that the shadows of the tress were becoming so long in the evening sunlight, the birds were beginning to fly home, and the day was closing in. At last they reached a great plain overgrown with bushes, and when they looked around them, they saw, as much as they could in the darkness, that they were among the same beautiful raspberry bushes from which they had picked their baskets and their aprons full. Question: What did the girls hope to see after they got lost? Answer: that the wood would soon end, and that they would see the smoke from the chimneys of their home
Context: Then the Princess could restrain herself no longer, but ran forward and threw her arms round her husband. So the Princess stayed with him, and said to the old man, 'Go back to the castle and tell my parents that I am staying here.' Question: What happened when the three months of the Prince's enchantment were over? Answer: He ceased to be an eagle and became once more a man, and they returned home together.
Context: This time the arrow again hit the centipede right in the middle of its head, but instead of glancing off harmlessly as before, it struck home to the creature's brain. A great darkness now overspread the heavens, the thunder rolled and the lightning flashed, and the wind roared in fury, and it seemed as if the world were coming to an end. Question: Why did it seem as if the world was coming to an end? Answer: The centipede was killed.
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: Where did the old man go to one day? Answer: to the city
Context: While all this was taking place the monkey was congratulating himself (as the wicked often do before their punishment comes upon them) on all he had done so neatly. He found this kind of life, however, extremely dull, accustomed as he was to the free life of the woods, and at last he said:  "No one knows that it was I who killed the crab! Question: Why did the monkey think it was okay to steal from and kill the crab? Answer: He was wicked.
Context: In the meantime Finn was very melancholy, and did not know what to do, or how to act at all. Talking of pancakes, maybe we'll give him as good as any he brings with him--thunderbolts or otherwise. Question: Why was Finn very melancholy? Answer: Far Rua was going to defeat him.
Context: On the following day the comrade said that now they must get on their way. The dower supplied by the troll was worth more than the king's whole country, and they did not know how they were to take it home. What the goats could not carry, had to be left at the castle. Question: Why could the goats not fly? Answer: They were loaded so heavily with gold and silver that they had to walk on the ground and were not strong enough to rise into the air.
Context: One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting expedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitch their camp. While the food was cooking they all stretched themselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off to sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over the sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire was almost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savage countries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light it again. Question: What will happen after the fish tribe make their fire? Answer: The rain will put out the fire.
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: Why was Setanta shy and flushed? Answer: He admired the Red Branch.
Context: But the seal catcher only laughed at them, and said that those seals were most worth killing. The seal catcher, much annoyed at his clumsiness, and also at the loss of his knife, went home to dinner in a very downcast frame of mind. Question: What did the man do after the seal escaped? Answer: went home to dinner in a very downcast frame of mind
Context: Now Dick was more versed in giving blows than in making music. His first impulse was to seize the Sword, then, come what might, he had something in his hand to defend himself with. He blew a blast upon it, which, however, was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall. Question: What did the horses do when they woke up from their enchanted sleep? Answer: stamped, and snorted, and ground their bits, as if eager to escape from their stalls
Context: One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting expedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitch their camp. While the food was cooking they all stretched themselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off to sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over the sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire was almost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savage countries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light it again. Question: Why did the fish tribe need to light the fire again? Answer: It was very cold.
Context: At that she began to cry again, and told the king's son all that had befallen her since the death of her mother. Very soon the slave returned with the litter, which was placed on the ground close to the bushes where the girl lay. Question: How did the prince convince the girl to come down from the tree? Answer: He had a litter to hide her from others.
Context: Once upon a time there was a young man named Farquhar MacNeill. However, before he saw what he took to be the light from a cottage window on his left hand, some distance from the path, and, forgetting his Mistress's instructions that he was to follow the path right over the hill. Question: What did Farquhar do when he forgot to follow the path right over the hill? Answer: He left it and walked towards the light.
Context: One day as he was standing in his stable, he sank through the ground. Down below, in the place to which he had come, everything was unspeakably handsome. Question: How did the neighbor feel about the placement of the peasant's stable? Answer: unhappy
Context: The servants and conceited folk at the big house began to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge, and to annoy her with their impudence. and the servants that he used to be boasting to were soon flocking from the castle, and grinning, and huzzaing, and beating tunes on tongs and shovels and pans; and he cursing and swearing, and the eyes ready to start out of his head, and he so black in the face, and kicking out his legs behind him like mad. Question: What did the youngest princess wish for the head footman? Answer: a pair of horns spring out of his head, and sing to the lodge
Context: Besides, she is my father's only daughter, and he would not like to see her marry some one from afar. If you do not believe me, wait until they go walking in the garden, and then you may take a look at them without their knowing it." Question: What will Kung do when he sees A-Sung walking in the garden? Answer: beg his friend to act for him in arranging the marriage
Context: "Listen," said the neighbor, "there is one thing you must do for me as a favor." "You must shift your cow-stable, because it is in my way," was the answer he gave the peasant. Question: How did the peasant feel about the neighbor's request? Answer: unwilling
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: What did the king give his six sons? Answer: the handsomest clothes
Context: They went out into the woods, and at the close of the afternoon they brought back a great spoil of meat of all kinds. As the young man appeared to doubt, she added, "Feign yourself sick when you go home to her lodge; and when the Toad-Woman asks what ails you, say that you wish to see your cradle; for your cradle was of wampum, and your faithful brother the dog, in striving to save you, tore off these pieces which I show you." Question: Why did the young woman throw out the meat? Answer: She was bewitched by Mukakee Mindermoea.
Context: And when he came to an inn he made a halt, and in the joy of his heart ate up all the food he had brought with him, dinner and supper and all. It was now near the middle of the day, and the sun grew hotter and hotter. Question: How did Hans begin to feel? Answer: very hot, and so thirsty that his tongue clove to the roof of his mouth
Context: "I was giving a representation," he said, "in the hall of the posting-house in the little town of Slagelse. All at once, a person in black, of student-like appearance, entered the room, and sat down. Question: why was the spectator sent to Slagelse? Answer: to lecture to the people in the provinces
Context: There was only one person who was not pleased at Hase-Hime's success. At last the step-mother, seizing the opportunity of her husband's absence, ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl to the Hibari Mountains, the wildest part of the country, and to kill her there. Question: What did the step-mother do in her husband's absence? Answer: ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl to the Hibari Mountains and kill her there
Context: The guests listened breathlessly, for they felt that they would never hear such wonderful music again. For that very night, after all the Nobles had gone back to their tents, a soldier on guard saw, in the moonlight, a snow-white Hart and Hind moving slowly down the road that ran past the camp. Question: Why were a snow-white Hart and Hind moving slowly down the road? Answer: They were finding Thomas.
Context: So she did not dare to refuse any longer, and brought out as much money as he could possibly carry in his knapsack. Now no sooner had he gone than the devil came home, and when he learned that Murmur had taken along a big bag of money. But he planted his legs firmly on the ground, and waded along until he got across. Question: Who will the jaws turn out to be? Answer: the devil
Context: Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Indeed, they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro. Question: How did the old man and wife support themselves? Answer: cultivating a small plot of land
Context: When the day came on which the cabin-boy was to take command, the weather was fair and quiet; but he drummed up the whole ship's crew, and with the exception of a tiny bit of canvas, had all sails reefed. The boy ordered them to throw the first cord of birch-wood overboard, billet by billet, one at a time and never two, and he did not let them touch the other two cords. Question: Why did the crew obey the cabin-boy to the letter and not laugh? Answer: They trusted the cabin-boy.
Context: The warrior's household and servants had been very much concerned when they found that he did not return the night before, but they finally concluded that he had been kept by the violent storm and had taken shelter somewhere. When the servants on the watch for his return caught sight of him they called to every one that he was approaching, and the whole household turned out to meet him, wondering much what the retinue of men, bearing presents and banners, that followed him, could mean. Question: How did the servants feel when they saw the retinue of men with Hidesato? Answer: confused
Context: Maidwa thought it strange that he should be so warmly received, and married instantly against his own wishes, although he could not help noticing that the chief's daughter was pretty. He wakened early, and finding the chief's daughter looking forth at the door, he spoke to her, but she gave no answer. Question: Where did Maidwa think he saw a faint red light? Answer: far over in the west
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' But though I can't take money,' says he, 'I could take a few acres o' land, if you'd give them to me.' Question: What did Saint Kavin say he could do for the king? Answer: make the king's old goose as good as new.
Context: Long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded, and he was astonished to behold a man; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather. He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: Why did the old man bitterly bewailed the hour? Answer: He should lose control of his charge had begun.
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: Why did the women not want to keep the child any longer? Answer: When they booked a dish of mush or a potful of porridge that was for all six of them, the child swallowed it all by himself.
Context: On the bridge over the canal stood three persons who wished to recommend themselves to the lamp, for they thought it could give the office to whomsoever it chose. The old lamp assured them that not one of them could give sufficient light to fill the position of a street lamp, but they would believe nothing that it said. Question: Why did the herring's head think he should replace the lamp? Answer: it would save oil
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. Not doubting that it was her husband, she went to the door and beheld two strange females. They sat in a remote part of the lodge, shy and taciturn, and drew their garments about them in such a manner as nearly to hide their faces. The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. They supposed that their guests might have been stricken with famine. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. She constrained herself, however, in a good degree, but she could not conceal her feelings, though she said but little. Question: What will happen whenever the hunter lays down his hunt? Answer: The two females will seize upon the deer and begin to tear off the fat.
Context: At the time of the seven empires there lived a man by the name of Si-Men Bau, who was a governor on the Yellow River. The sorcerers and witches who dwelt there said: "Every year the river-god looks for a bride, who must be selected from among the people. Question: Who was a governor on the Yellow River? Answer: Si-Men Bau
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan. Question: Who lived on Horaizan? Answer: certain hermits
Context: The gardener left the hamper by the garden gate, so that the carrier could pick it up when he passed. Timmy Willie crept in through a hole in the wicker-work, and after eating some peas-Timmy Willie fell fast asleep. Question: Where did the gardener leave the hamper for the carrier? Answer: by the garden gate
Context: And it seemed to her as though she knew all the people who were there. It was quite evident that they were trolls, the people from underground, and therefore he discharged his gun over the roof. Question: Who were the whole company sitting together inside? Answer: trolls
Context: Then the enemy began to throw bombs at him, and shoot at him with cannon. said he, and spat it out again, and then came a chain-bullet and fell into his butter-plate, and another tore away the bit of bread from between his fingers. Question: How will Murmur feel after the chain and bullet tore away the bread? Answer: angry
Context: Long, long ago there lived, an old man and an old woman; they were peasants, and had to work hard to earn their daily rice. The old man used to go and cut grass for the farmers around, and while he was gone the old woman, his wife, did the work of the house and worked in their own little rice field. Question: What hard work did the man do to earn his daily rice? Answer: cut grass for the farmers around
Context: Suddenly a bright light came towards him, and in the light stood a messenger. The messenger held a book in his hand, and spoke to Sentaro:  "I am sent to you by Jofuku, who in answer to your prayer, has permitted you in a dream to see the land of Perpetual Life. Question: Why did Jofuku send Sentaro to the land of Perpetual life in a dream? Answer: to test Sentaro
Context: With torches they hastened to the wood, and although they lit up every dark recess and leafy gloom, their search was in vain. Whither she had vanished no mortal tongue could tell; although it chanced that a company of fishermen, who were spearing fish near the Spirit Grove, descried something that seemed to resemble a female figure standing on the shore. Question: What made Leelinau flee? Answer: the slight ripple of the fishermen's oars
Context: By and bye they arrived at the house in a tree where the snake lived, when he was not travelling with his father and mother. They even managed to carry small fruit tied up in their tails for the baby's mother, who felt at last that she was safe and at peace. Question: What did the snakes use to carry small fruits? Answer: their tails
Context: THERE was once a peasant who owned a faithful dog called Sultan, now grown so old that he had lost all his teeth, and could lay hold of nothing. One day the man was standing at the door of his house with his wife, and he said,  "I shall kill old Sultan to-morrow; he is of no good any longer." Question: Why does the husband decide to kill Sultan? Answer: He is of no good any longer
Context: Young man, the errand you are bound on is beset with trials and difficulties. But powerful Indians, warriors of a distant chief, came and told him that their chief's daughter was on the brink of the grave, and that she herself requested his wampum-cap, which she was confident would save her life. ' Question: What did the chief's daughter request? Answer: the magician's wampum-cap
Context: Once upon a time, long, long years ago, there lived a well-to-do old couple on a homestead up in Hadeland. And whoever else had business in the woods at that time, noticed that the mountain folk had carried on its tricks with their herd. Question: Who was the couple's son? Answer: a dragoon
Context: Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. And she caused a great wind to spring up, and it came soughing through the house from the north-west; and the King said, "This is the sigh of the winter night." Question: What did Sheen do when she realized it was a night of Samhain-tide, the eve of Wednesday after All Souls' Day? Answer: She went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling.
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: Why was the wolf never seen in Dublin again? Answer: Tom gave him a warning.
Context: While he was doing this he saw a scholar coming towards him, whose clothes were tattered. Now it was seven years since Manawyddan had seen man or beast in that place, and the sight amazed him. Question: How many years has it been since Manawyddan saw a man or beast in this place? Answer: seven years
Context: 'Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: What did the Prince have to do to the daughters? Answer: walk past them three times
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: What was stronger than the power of the giant? Answer: the power of the bull
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: What was put between the wolf and the cradle? Answer: a coupling
Context: And then Hans, having watched them disappear, jumped for joy, and thanked his stars that he had been so lucky as to get rid of the stones that had weighed upon him so long without any effort of his own. "I really think," cried he, "I am the luckiest man under the sun." Question: Where did Hans go? Answer: to his mother's house
Context: And now came the rogue the third time to the door and knocked. " And he put up his paws against the window, and when they saw that they were white, all seemed right, and they opened the door; and when he was inside they saw it was the wolf, and they were terrified and tried to hide themselves. Question: Where did the youngest goat hide itself? Answer: in the clock-case
Context: One day Ali Baba is at work collecting and cutting firewood in the forest, and he happens to overhear a group of forty thieves visiting their treasure store. When the thieves are gone, Ali Baba enters the cave himself, and takes some of the treasure home. Question: How does Ali Baba learn of the cave of treasures? Answer: He happens to overhear a group of forty thieves visiting their treasure store.
Context: It so happened that Finn and his gigantic relatives were all working at the Giant's Causeway in order to make a bridge, or, what was still better, a good stout pad-road across to Scotland. The truth is that honest Finn's affection for his wife was by no manner of means the whole cause of his journey home. Whether the story is true or not I cannot say, but the report went that by one blow of his fist he flattened a thunderbolt, and kept it in his pocket in the shape of a pancake to show to all his enemies when they were about to fight him. " As he spoke he clapped his thumb in his mouth, as he always did when he wanted to prophesy or to know anything. Question: What did Far Rua always carry with him? Answer: a thunderbolt
Context: 'God save you,' says the King (for the King was a civil-spoken gentleman, by all accounts), 'God save you,' says he to the young man. 'Oh, that's a folly to talk,' says the King, 'because myself and my goose is private friends,' says he, 'and no one could tell you,' says he, 'barrin' the fairies.' For I'd have you know,' says he, 'that I don't keep the likes o' such company.' Question: What did Saint Kavin describe himself as? Answer: an honest man
Context: No more had they cast overboard their chips and litter than Sir Urian came along in a squall, and grabbed the master mariner by the collar. " He worked and sweat, and the perspiration ran down his cheeks in such streams that one might have run a mill with them, but he merely kept on pumping out of the North Sea into the North Sea. Question: What happened because the devil was fool enough? Answer: He allowed himself to be hoaxed.
Context: At last King Keiko ordered his younger son Prince Yamato to subdue the brigands and, if possible, to rid the land of their evil lives. Prince Yamato was only sixteen years of age, he had but reached his manhood according to the law, yet though he was such a youth in years he possessed the dauntless spirit of a warrior of fuller age and knew not what fear was. Question: Why did Emperor Keiko send Yamato to fight the rebels? Answer: He possessed the dauntless spirit of a warrior of fuller age and knew not was fear was.
Context: After talking with them a little while, he discovered that whenever he addressed the one on his left hand, the tree would tremble as before and settle down to its former place; but when he addressed the one on his right hand, it would again shoot upward. Onwee then descended, and learning that these sisters had a brother living with their father, who had shared all together in the spoils of all such as the wicked sisters had betrayed, and who would now pursue him for having put an end to their wicked profits, Onwee set off at random, not knowing whither he went. Question: How did Ownee kill the wicked women? Answer: He raised the club, and with one blow laid the two wicked women dead at his feet.
Context: Get up, acushla, and show this decent little man something that won't be unworthy of your father, Finn M'Coul." The latter squeezed and squeezed the stone, but to no purpose; he might pull the rocks of Lumford's Glen asunder, and flatten a thunderbolt, but to squeeze water out of a white stone was beyond his strength. Question: How will Far Rua feel when the baby squeezes water out of the stone? Answer: shocked
Context: So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, which troubled both the king and the queen greatly. Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent's hearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting into his litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten all along the road. Question: What did the prince ask for from his mother and father? Answer: some gruel
Context: you ought to be rather ashamed to have put such a great hero to flight!' 'It was only a dog, then if it had been a wolf I certainly should have killed him....'  'If Walter would listen to my advice, and boast a little less, and do a little more,' said Jonas, consolingly. ' Question: What advice did Jonas give to Walter? Answer: boast a little less
Context: Long, long ago there lived, an old man and an old woman; they were peasants, and had to work hard to earn their daily rice. The old man used to go and cut grass for the farmers around, and while he was gone the old woman, his wife, did the work of the house and worked in their own little rice field. Question: What did his wife do when he was gone? Answer: the work of the house and worked in their own little rice field
Context: And so she helped him out, and heard how the wolf had come, and eaten all the rest. And you may think how she cried for the loss of her dear children. Question: What did the mother goat notice about the wolf's body? Answer: something inside his body was moving and struggling
Context: The little fasting-lodge had been removed, and the weeds kept from growing on the circle where it had stood. In its place rose a tall and graceful plant, surmounted with nodding plumes and stately leaves, and golden clusters. Question: Why did the Indians no longer need to rely on hunting alone? Answer: They had Indian corn.
Context: He made up his mind to surrender, for he knew that his enemy was stronger than mortal man. He came up humbly to Momotaro and threw down his iron bar, and kneeling down at the victor's feet he broke off the horns on his head in token of submission, for they were the sign of his strength and power. Question: Why were the devil's broken horns a token of submission? Answer: They were a sign of his strength ad power.
Context: And this cup was filled with heather ale, which foamed up over the brim; and when the Knight saw Sir Gregory, he lifted it from the table, and handed it to him with a stately bow, and Sir Gregory, being very thirsty, drank. And as he drank he noticed that the ale in the goblet never grew less, but ever foamed up to the edge; and for the first time his heart misgave him, and he wished that he had never set out on this strange adventure. Question: How did Earl Gregory feel while he was drinking the ale? Answer: concerned
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: Why did the elder son swallow his pride and crossed the mountains to his old home? Answer: He could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day.
Context: The boy from the tree had no more than time to escape, when the hunter entered, and found his son, sitting as usual, near the fire. My son," he said, "you must be very foolish when alone to play so. He, however, engaged his son to entice the boy to a dead tree, by the edge of a wood, where they could kill many flying-squirrels by setting it on fire. Question: Why did the hunter not dare to visit the place where he deposited his wife's remains? Answer: He was fearful of disturbing the dead.
Context: The woman felt very sorry for the poor little animal, and pleaded for her husband to spare the monkey, but her pleading was all in vain, the man was determined to sell him to the butcher. I have grown old in the service of my master, and because I cannot dance properly now he intends to sell me to the butcher. Question: Why did the monkey hurry to see the boar? Answer: The man was going to kill him soon.
Context: And the Mother-Stork began talking in the nest, and told about Egypt and the waters of the Nile, and the incomparable mud that was to be found in that strange land; and all this sounded new and very charming to the little Toad. All the longing and all the pleasure that I feel is much better than having a jewel in one's head." Question: How does the Mother-Stork describe Egypt and the waters of the Nile? Answer: incomparable mud is found in a strange land
Context: During the first half of the eighteenth century, several large estates in Schonen were the property of the family of Barnekow. A widow at twenty-nine, she herself took over the management of her large properties. Question: Who owned several large estates in Schonen? Answer: the family of Barnekow
Context: There was once upon a time a man and his wife who had an old cat and an old dog. I've quite made up my mind that the next time I see her, I shall put her in the water.' Question: What are the names of the man and his wife? Answer: Simon and Susan
Context: He, to his horror, recognised his own hunting knife with which he had struck the seal in the morning, and which had been carried off by the wounded animal. They implored him not to put himself about, for no harm would befall him, and they would love him all their lives long if he would only do what they asked him. Question: How did the seal catcher feel after he saw his hunting knife? Answer: horrified
Context: When he had made his way far into the Fjoll, he saw a girl driving sheep and goats across a mountain-top. But when he reached the top of the mountain, the girl had vanished, as well as her flock, and all he saw was a great pack of bears. Question: What happened when Per Gynt reached the top of the mountain? Answer: The girl had vanished as well as her flock and all he saw was a great pack of  bears.
Context: It seemed to him that he had almost reached it when his foot tripped. He fell down, down, down, into a Fairy Parlour, far under the ground. Question: What happened when he almost reached the light? Answer: His foot tripped, and he fell down.
Context: Then, after some time had passed, the youngest decided to set out to herd the king's hares, and told his father of his intention. Esben merely kept on saying that he wanted to go to court and serve the king, for he would not take service with any lesser master, said he. Question: Why did the youngest think herding the king's hares would be just the work for him? Answer: to loaf about in the forest and field, look for strawberry patches, herd a flock of hares, and lie down and sleep in the sun between times
Context: They had nearly all of them disappeared, while the scholar's eyes
were still fixed on them full of terror and astonishment, and he could
not imagine whence they had come. Then he returned and looked all
about his room; but there was nothing to be seen. Question: What the king and his bodyguards leave behind? Answer: a little hunting dog
Context: He tried to feed it a few bread-crumbs,
but the little dog only sniffed at them and let them lie. When the
night had passed the scholar feared it might have run away; but there
it lay, curled up as before. Question: Why did the scholar loved the hunting dog? Answer: It ate all of the vermin.
Context: About a week passed by: then one day the Fox came into the cave, and flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted. "I doubt that no excuse would be accepted," answered the Fox, "for they asked me to stand god-father. Question: What did the Fox's friends want him to do with them? Answer: go to a christening to-night
Context: 'It is ready, mistress,' whispered a queer little voice which made her jump, and, looking behind her, she saw a lovely palace made of the finest woods, and a row of slaves with tall fans bowing before the door. Here she stayed quietly, and every day the baby grew taller and stronger, and very soon he could run about and even talk. Question: Why did the king send his son and chief of ministers to investigate the new palace? Answer: He believed it was a gang of conspirators.
Context: He traveled on till he came to a small wigwam, and on looking into it he discovered a very old woman sitting alone by the fire. After she had thus spoken, she gave him the following directions for his journey:  "When you come near to the village which you seek, you will see in the center a large lodge, in which the chief of the village, who has two daughters, resides. Question: Who invited the man in? Answer: a very old woman
Context: She made no resistance, but turning as she left the lodge, she cast upon Bokwewa a smile of kind regard, and was at once, with her companion, gone from his view. It is a long distance to the present abiding-place of your wife, and there are so many charms and temptations by the way that I fear you will be led astray and forget your errand. Question: Why did Bokwewa warn Kwasynd about the dangers of finding his wife? Answer: wanted Kwasynd to succeed
Context: The following year the snail lay in almost the same spot, in the sunshine under the rose-tree, which was again budding and bearing roses as fresh and beautiful as ever. The snail crept half out of his shell, stretched out his horns, and drew them in again. " Question: Why did the snail draw his horns back in? Answer: because he saw no progress
Context: She cleared the three miles of fire at a leap, and asked if he were riding, and he said he was. She consumed them, and said to him there were before them three miles of hill covered with steel thistles, and that she must clear it. They went on, and she went not far before she told him to give her a meal, and he gave her the bread and the bottleful. Question: What did the queen tell Morraha to take with him? Answer: the best mare in the stable
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Where did Setanta cross before morning? Answer: the frontier
Context: Meanwhile Earl Gregory rode on and on, ever following in the wake of the Knight in green, over moor, and burn, and moss, till he came to the most desolate region that he had ever been in in his life; where the wind blew cold, as if from snow-fields, and where the hoar-frost lay thick and white on the withered grass at his feet. These weird Goblins were shouting and singing as they danced, and waving their arms above their heads, and throwing themselves about on the ground, for all the world as if they had gone mad; and when they saw Earl Gregory halt on his horse just outside the Ring they beckoned to him with their skinny fingers. Question: How did Earl Gregory feel when he saw the weird Goblins? Answer: scared
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: Why did the prince go to the spring? Answer: He wanted to see what it all meant.
Context: There they stood, looking towards the bridge of Thuar, in the dead of the night, with a little moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid. He looked, but could see nothing; and she stood trembling and her eyes wide open, looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola. " Question: What happened after the neighbor said she saw bridles jingling and feathers tossing? Answer: He looked, but could see nothing.
Context: When Confucius came to the earth, the Kilin, that strange beast which is the prince of all four-footed animals, and only appears when there is a great man on earth, sought the child and spat out a jade whereon was written: "Son of the Watercrystal you are destined to become an uncrowned king!" And Confucius grew up, studied diligently, learned wisdom and came to be a saint. Question: What did the Kilin do when there was a great man on earth? Answer: sought the child and spat out a jade
Context: Toward morning the princess wanted to fly home again, but she did not venture to ride alone; the troll must accompany her. When the troll had mounted, the comrade swung up in back of him, and off they were through the air in the direction of the king's castle. Question: What happened because the princess did not want to fly home alone? Answer: The troll must accompany her.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: What did Aspenclog do when the evil one tried to trick him? Answer: tricked him back
Context: "My beams," continued the voice, "shine faintly on your lodge, but they have power to transform it into the lightness of the skies, and decorate it with the colors of the clouds. Very soon the lodge began to shake and tremble, and they felt it rising into the air. Question: What did the beams have the power to do? Answer: transform the lodge into the lightness of the skies and decorate it with the colors of the clouds
Context: 'The houses shall remain the property of the man to whom they were given, and to whom they belong. The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story, and inquired if the wife was dead before the farmer left the house, and received for answer that he was in such a hurry for justice to be done that he had not waited to see. Question: What did the farmer need to give to the elder brother? Answer: twelve hundred pounds
Context: 'That's a lie,' said Walter, 'I am not at all frightened, but it is more amusing when there are two. Come with me, Jonas, and you shall have the skin, and I will be content with the ears and the tail.' Question: Why did Walter want someone to come with him to wolf-hunting? Answer: He only wanted someone who would see how he struck the wolf and how the dust flew out of his skin.
Context: Now it happened one day that a King who was hunting in the wood had a large greyhound, who ran sniffing to the tree on which the girl sat, and jumped round it, yelping and barking furiously. The marriage was celebrated with much pomp and ceremony, but the bride neither spoke nor laughed. Question: What did the girl do when the King asked her to be his wife? Answer: gave no answer, but nodded slightly with her head
Context: Manawyddan was placing the cross-beam on the two forked sticks, where the mouse was to hang, when a priest rode past. 'Lord,' said the priest, 'sooner than see thee touch this reptile, I would purchase its freedom.' Question: What did the priest want to do after he saw the mouse? Answer: purchase its freedom
Context: Momotaro soon saw that they were daunted by the sight of the sea, and to try them he spoke loudly and roughly:  "Why do you hesitate? It is impossible to take such weak creatures as you with me to fight the demons. Question: Why did Momotaro think it would be better to go alone? Answer: The animals were afraid of the sea.
Context: For a while she walked, not knowing whither she went, then by and bye she grew tired, and sat under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep. Save me from sun, and I will save you from rain,' and she opened the pot, and when the snake had slipped in, she put on the cover. Question: What happened after the girl rested under a tree and fell asleep? Answer: She raised her eyes, and saw a snake wriggling from under the bushes towards her.
Context: She then gave little spirit his dish, and he commenced eating. One of the brothers presented his face at this little window, and rolled his eye about at the boy-man in a very threatening way. Question: What happened to the door after the boy-man turned his dish upside down? Answer: was closed with a stone
Context: And now, succeeding the flute music, sounded the music of a stringed instrument exceedingly sweet. Finn pressed the cruel spear-head closer to his forehead, and saw every torch fall, save one which wavered as if held by a drunken man, and beneath it a giant figure that reeled and tottered and strove in vain to keep its feet. Question: What happened after the enchanter saw all was silent and dark? Answer: He laughed and from his mouth blew a red fire-ball at the Teck-Midcuarta.
Context: The Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree of those old days, was prized by warriors just as much as the Standard or Banner is valued by a regiment in these modern days, when given by the King to his soldiers on the occasion of setting out for war. On his way he visited first of all the temples of Ise for worship, and his aunt the Princess of Yamato and High Priestess came out to greet him. Question: What was the Prince given? Answer: the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: How did Conchubar's nephew feel when Conchubar called him? Answer: flushed
Context: We talked it over in all manner of ways, yet could not agree on the subject. It made me think of the old stories when the gods, in their immortal youth, wandered upon this earth, and paid visits to mankind. Question: what happened in the room after they drank? Answer: a kind of sunshine filled the room
Context: The gentleman brought him home then, and he went herding for him. When the grass was getting scarce, he was driving the cows further out. A giant came out, and when he saw the lad up on the tree throwing down the apples to the pigs, the head rose on him (i.e., he got furious). Question: What happened after the son saw fine grass on the other side of the wall? Answer: He threw down a gap in the wall and let in the pigs and the cows.
Context: She went away, after saying this, but stopping in at a dry goods store to shop, she forgot the precious box in her new interest and left it lying on the ribbon counter. Bessie never knew, until after she had hung her coat in the hall closet and counted up her parcels, that she had one too many. Question: How did Bessie Bostwick feel when she found the magic bonbons? Answer: excited
Context: At last news reached the king that Moti had exchanged his horse for a live tiger; and the monarch himself came down, half disbelieving the tale, to see if it were really true. The king, however, did not share his pleasure at all, but called up a soldier to shoot the tiger, much to the relief of all the inmates of the serai except Moti. Question: What did the king do after he was convinced that Moti was a wise man? Answer: increased his pay a hundredfold
Context: Now the Afghans began to look a little uncomfortable, but Moti seemed so determined to keep the horse that they resolved to appeal to the law, so they went off and laid a complaint before the king that Moti had stolen one of their horses and would not give it up nor pay for it. But Moti declared that he had got the animal in exchange for fifty pieces of silver, whilst the horse merchants vowed that the money they had on them was what they had received for the sale of other horses; and in one way and another the dispute got so confusing that the king (who really thought that Moti had stolen the horse) said at last, 'Well, I tell you what I will do. Question: What did the two Afghans do after Moti refused to give back the horse? Answer: went off and laid a complaint before the king
Context: Aggo, relieved of his pursuers, hopped off a hundred steps in one, till he reached the stream, crossed it in a twinkling of the eye, and bore his daughter in triumph to his lodge. In the course of time Aggo's beautiful daughter married a very worthy young warrior, who was neither a buffalo-king nor so much as the owner of any more of the buffalos than a splendid skin robe which he wore, with great effect, thrown over his shoulders, on his wedding-day. Question: How was the young warrior different from the king of the buffalos? Answer: The young warrior was not the owner of any more of the buffalos than a splendid skin robe which he wore.
Context: They had not very far to go, but Moti's little pony, weighted with a heavy man and two big rocks, soon began to lag behind the cavalry, and would have lagged behind the infantry too, only they were not very anxious to be too early in the fight, and hung back so as to give Moti plenty of time. The young man jogged along more and more slowly for some time, until at last, getting impatient at the slowness of the pony, he gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the pony completely lost his temper and bolted. Question: How did Moti feel while he lost control of his pony? Answer: angry
Context: MISS MOPPET holds her poor head in her paws, and looks at him through a hole in the duster. HE has wriggled out and run away; and he is dancing a jig on the top of the cupboard! Question: Why does the Mouse slide down the bell-pull? Answer: The Mouse thinks Miss Moppet looks very ill.
Context: On the eve of the day fixed for her marriage, Leelinau decked herself in her best garments. I am going from a father who has ranged the forest to procure the choicest skins for my dress, and kept his lodge supplied with the best spoil of the chase. Question: How did Leelinau's parents feel about Leelinau going to meet her lover? Answer: happy
Context: Gopani-Kufa was astonished at this answer; but knowing that the words of Zengi-mizi were true words, he determined to make the request. So that night they feasted, and on the morrow Insato came to Gopani-Kufa and, giving him greeting joyfully, he said:  'Now, O my friend, name your choice amongst my possessions and you shall have it!' Question: Why did Insato turn down on Gopani-Kufa's request? Answer: Because the mirror is most precious to him
Context: She had tried by amiability and obedience to show her goodwill and to mollify the new wife, and to break down that wall of prejudice and misunderstanding that she knew generally stood between step-parents and their step-children. Appearances were certainly against her; the young girl looked guilty, and the father thinking that perhaps after all what his wife had told him was true, spoke angrily:  "Then, is it really true that you are daily cursing your step-mother and praying for her death? And the father's eyes filled with sudden tears to think that he should have to upbraid his daughter in this way. Question: Why did the daughter look guilty? Answer: Her father knew she was hiding something.
Context: Great good luck once happened to a young woman who was living all alone in the woods with nobody near her but her little dog; for, to her surprise, she found fresh meat every morning at her door. The cradle was made of the finest wampum, and all its bandages and ornaments were of the same precious stuff. Question: What happened after the woman saw the man? Answer: The man became her husband and the woman had a son by him.
Context: But a year later, just as the term he had set was up, he was working on a house, for during the school vacation he busied himself either with fishing or carpentering. That very moment the pastor's daughter from underground vanished; but immediately after he cut himself in the knee with the ax in such wise that he remained a cripple for life. Question: What happened when the schoolmaster declined to become the pastor? Answer: The pastor's daughter from underground vanished.
Context: When they came ashore, Murmur sent to the king, and had him told to have the sword fetched; but though the king sent four horses, they could not move it from the spot. But when Murmur asked for more work, he told him to travel to his troll's castle, where no one dared go, and to remain there until he had built a bridge across the sound, so that people could cross. Question: How did the king feel to see Murmur carry the sword? Answer: shocked
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: Where did the girl sleep? Answer: a high tree
Context: When the ashes in the censer fly up into the air without any cause,
and are scattered about, it is a sign that great danger is
threatening. Suddenly the Queen of Heaven appeared at the
tip of the banner-staff. Question: Where did army go nearly two hundred years ago? Answer: the island of Formosa
Context: And wrapt in a misty stillness the mountains were all asleep. He pray'd a great prayer for Ireland, he pray'd with all his might. Question: Why did the Abbot wake up at the dawn of day? Answer: It was time to pray.
Context: The next morning he ran with the second giant, whom he also outran, killed and beheaded. He told White Feather that he was about to be deceived; that he had never known any other sex but his own, but that as he went on his way to the lodge he would meet the most beautiful woman in the world. Question: Why did White Feather declined the last giant's proposal? Answer: He preferred to keep the heads as trophies of his victory.
Context: 'I will go into the castle and get tidings of the dogs,' said Pryderi at last. 'Truly,' answered Manawyddan, 'thou wouldst do unwisely, for whosoever has cast a spell over this land has set this castle here.' Question: How did Pryderi feel after his dogs chased after the boar? Answer: concerned
Context: One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home. When the girls looked into the basket they saw a pair of most beautiful bracelets of precious stones, dark red, and made in the shape of a ripe raspberry and with an inscription: 'To Lisa and Aina'; beside them there was a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm: on it was inscribed 'Otto, never destroy the helpless!' Question: How did the other siblings feel after Aina and Lisa got home? Answer: relieved
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: The winter passed, and the spring, sparkling in the clear northern air, cheered the spirits of the lonely little people in the lodge. One day he addressed his sister as follows:  "My sister, are we always to live as if there were no other human beings in the world? Question: Who was the eldest? Answer: the girl
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: How did Fergus Mac Roy feel seeing Setanta defeat the dog? Answer: joy
Context: Her confusion changed to apprehension, her color from scarlet to white. Have you forgotten what I told you, that although she is your step-mother you must be obedient and loyal to her? Question: What did the father do because he thought the daughter was cursing the step-mother? Answer: scolded her
Context: "Try and know them again," said the man, "for the fifty young girls are in this house, and this woman beside me is their mistress, Dechtire. I saw the man of the house, tall and open-handed and shining." " Question: Why couldn't Conchubar see the mistress of the house? Answer: She was in the pains of childbirth.
Context: The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmother sent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch. She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such a dinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn of the bracket bull. Question: What did the mother say would save her? Answer: a piece of the bracket bull that was on the mountain
Context: And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "It is best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some place where we can spend the night." A man and a woman were in it, and when they saw him they said, "Bring your companions here along with you, and they will be welcome." Then Bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was. Question: Why did Bricriu not want to go to the poor-looking house? Answer: neither room nor provisions nor coverings in it
Context: And she was invited to the concert in the evening--the family concert. But I haven't the jewel; not that I cry about that--no, I must go higher up, into splendor and joy! Question: What was the little toad invited to? Answer: the family concert
Context: In the meantime the Master Girl sat by the seashore, and waited and waited; but no king's son came. But the whole hut was as dark and dirty as a pig-sty; therefore the Master Girl said she would clean up a bit, so that things would look as they did in other, decent people's houses. Question: Who lived in the little hut? Answer: an old woman
Context: The man, who feared to shake hands with the giant, drew a red-hot bar of iron from the fire and handed it to him. He seized it firmly, and pressed it so hard that the molten iron ran down between his fingers. Question: What happened because the giant pressed the red-hot bar of iron firmly? Answer: Molten iron ran down between his fingers.
Context: The next morning, before dawn, the giant went to the forest again. " He told him what had happened at the giant's, and said that now he would go to the well in the church, if only he knew the way. Question: How long did it take to reach the lake? Answer: many, many days
Context: The drummers beat their drums and the trumpeters blew their trumpets, and the other musicians practiced their art, each in his own way; so that the duke heard them long before they came in sight. "There are soldiers coming," said he, "and now you must provide me with soldiers and horsemen until I have twice as many as the folk on the other side of the forest. Question: What happened when the duke heard the music of this sort? Answer: He asked Lasse for soldiers and horsemen.
Context: Now the stone mortar had hidden himself with several other stones on the top of the crab's gate, and as the monkey ran underneath, the mortar and all fell down on the top of the monkey's head. Thus the wicked monkey met his well-merited punishment, and the young crab avenged his father's death. Question: Where did the stone hide? Answer: with several other stones on the top of the crab's gate
Context: The enchanter blew a second and a third, and Finn caught them both. Finn let fall the mantle as he had been instructed, and pursued him, but in vain. When he came to the spot where he had dropped the mantle it was not seen, but smoke and flame issued there from a hole in the ground. Question: How did the enchanter know his power over Tara was at an end? Answer: Finn did not fall asleep.
Context: The farmer's trouble and patience was rewarded, for one fine day on going his rounds he found the badger caught in a hole he had dug for that purpose. When he reached the house the farmer said to his wife:  "I have at last caught the bad badger. Question: How was the farmer's trouble and patience rewarded? Answer: He found the badger caught in hole.
Context: She said she could feel six, but they must be OLD rabbits, because they were so hard and all different shapes. "Not fit to eat; but the skins will do fine to line my old cloak." Question: Why did Mrs. Gregor think of the six as old rabbits? Answer: because they were so hard and all different shapes
Context: When they were all assembled and seated in a circle, the old chief took his pipe and filled it, and passed it to the Indians around, to see if any thing would happen when they smoked. From that moment the sixth giant was looked upon as an impostor, and as soon as White Feather had, at the request of the company, faithfully recounted his history, the old chief, who was one of the best-hearted magicians that ever lived, ordered that the giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs; which being done, the whole six giants were at an end, and never troubled that neighborhood again, forever after. Question: What did the old chief order to happen to the giant? Answer: The giant should be transformed into a dog, and turned into the middle of the village, where the boys should pelt him to death with clubs.
Context: The following Thursday the white bear came to fetch his bride. So she rode on the bear's back, far, far away, until at last they came to a great rock. Question: What did the maiden do because she felt like lying down? Answer: rang her bell
Context: When they sat down to the table the king's son--the same who had been at the giant's--said it would be no more than right to invite the maiden, too, who had lent them the poker, and the door and the calf: "for if we had not had these things, we should not have moved from the spot." They were to carry the king's kindest greetings, and ask that the maiden come up to the castle and take dinner with them. " Question: How did the king's son feel when he recognized the Master Girl? Answer: happy
Context: The next morning a boy knocked at the door, bidding him attend the burial of the man who was dead. Question: How was the third wife different from the other wives? Answer: She did not do anything to trick her husband when he came back.
Context: Timmy Willie longed to be at home in his peaceful nest in a sunny bank. In a few days he grew so thin that Johnny Town-mouse noticed it, and questioned him. Question: What will Timmy Willie do because he longed to be home? Answer: try to go back home
Context: "Because they have not treated me with the respect due to a stranger," replied the boy. He placed himself under the tuition of Fergus Mac Roy, who, each day, grew more and more proud of his pupil, for while still a boy his fame was extending over Ulla. Question: What happened after Setanta told Conchubar who he was? Answer: Setanta was regularly received into the military school, where, ere long, he became a favourite both with old and young.
Context: With the utmost politeness he introduced Timmy Willie to nine other mice, all with long tails and white neckties. Johnny Town-mouse and his friends noticed it; but they were too well bred to make personal remarks; only one of them asked Timmy Willie if he had ever been in a trap? Question: Who did Johnny Town-Mice introduce to Timmy Willie? Answer: nine other mice
Context: In time she told them all that had happened to her, and they didn't know what to advise her to do. She was as fond of her husband as ever, and said she was sure that he couldn't help letting the children go; but still she was afraid beyond the world to have another child torn from her. Question: Why did the youngest princess return to her husband? Answer: She felt so great a longing to see her husband again.
Context: Just as she said that she felt a large glass of milk between her fingers, and at the same time Aina cried out, 'Lisa! Scarcely had she spoken before she felt a nice soft bed by her side, and there beside Lisa was one too. Question: Why didn't the girls think about how their wishes came true? Answer: They were too tired.
Context: One day as he was standing in his stable, he sank through the ground. Down below, in the place to which he had come, everything was unspeakably handsome. Question: What made the peasant lose his appetite? Answer: Something fell down into his food from above.
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Why did Setanta run away? Answer: He wanted to join the military academy.
Context: A crowd as large as that at a fair at once gathered, and all wanted to buy the pig. And one would overbid another, offering far more than a whole herd of pigs were worth. Question: Why did a crowd gather? Answer: All wanted to buy the pig.
Context: They left a great many odd little foot-marks all over the bed, especially little Benjamin, who was wearing clogs. LITTLE Benjamin said that the first thing to be done was to get back Peter's clothes, in order that they might be able to use the pocket handkerchief. Question: What did Peter suggest as a present for his Aunt? Answer: to fill the pocket-handkerchie with onions
Context: The wicked neighbor, as before, heard of the good old man's fortune, and of all that had so auspiciously befallen him. He called to mind how he had failed in his attempt to find the gold coins, and then in making the magic cakes. Question: What did the wicked neighbor fail in? Answer: finding the gold coins
Context: When they grew up the elder went to seek his fortune in a far country, and for many years no one heard anything about him. But, one day, as he was coming down stairs, he was surprised to see a stranger enter the hall, looking about as if the house belonged to him. Question: Who will the stranger turn out to be? Answer: the eldest son
Context: An old man had an only son, named Iadilla, who had come to that age which is thought to be most proper to make the long and final fast which is to secure through life a guardian genius or spirit. To accomplish his wish, he thought it necessary that the young Iadilla should fast a much longer time than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom, whose fame he coveted. Question: How did the old man feel about his son reaching the age to make the long and final fast? Answer: ambitious
Context: You are not even like an ordinary man, for you are exceptionally idle. I will send you to the country of Perpetual Life, where death never comes-where the people live forever!" Question: What did Jofuku give Sentaro? Answer: a little crane made of paper
Context: The charcoal-burner and his wife both stared at him for a moment, as if they could hardly believe their ears. When they were ready, one of the king's special servants entered, and took them into a small hall, where dinner was laid. Question: How did the couple feel after the king offered to help them? Answer: grateful
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. You will soon see us lie down, and we shall not rise again till the spring. Question: Why was the cupboard never empty? Answer: In there were all of the offerings handed in while they were asleep.
Context: When I saw I was in a man's shape I said I would take the child back to his father and mother, as I knew the grief they were in after him. I knew then it was the boy who was taking the child from me, and I said I would cure him if I got a good reward. Question: Where did the man find no living soul? Answer: on an island
Context: She cleared the three miles of fire at a leap, and asked if he were riding, and he said he was. She consumed them, and said to him there were before them three miles of hill covered with steel thistles, and that she must clear it. They went on, and she went not far before she told him to give her a meal, and he gave her the bread and the bottleful. Question: How did Morraha feel while he passed the knight with the king? Answer: cheerful
Context: Kotei in time grew to manhood and succeeded his father the Emperor Yuhi. This rebel wanted to make himself King, and many were the battles which he fought to this end. Question: Who was Shiyu? Answer: rebel
Context: In the land of the four rivers there dwelt a man who was very rich. Yet, thanks to the Fire-God, the man had saved all his movable belongings. Question: What will happen when the man helps the girl? Answer: She will reveal that she is the Fire-God.
Context: The son took this fatherly advice all in good part, except that portion which enjoined upon him to abstain from staying his stomach; but over that he made a number of wry faces, for the brother of the two wicked sisters had, among numerous noble gifts, a very noble appetite. Onwee finding that he was closely followed, climbed up into one of the tallest trees, and shot forth the magic arrows with which he had provided himself. Question: Why did the son take all of his father's advice but the portion which enjoined upon him to abstain from staying his stomach? Answer: The brother of the two wicked sisters had, among numerous noble gifts, a very noble appetite.
Context: Once upon a time, in the city of Shansi, there lived a scholar who
found the company of others too noisy for him. Yet he suffered because there were always so many
gnats and fleas in his room that he could not sleep at night. And the
hunting dogs climbed on the bed, and sniffed along the walls trailing
the fleas, and ate them up. Question: How will the fleas be removed from the room? Answer: The hunting dogs will climb on the bed, and sniff along the walls trailing the fleas, and eat them up.
Context: She at once set forth; and she was no sooner out of sight than the young man and his dog, Spirit-Iron, blowing a strong breath in the face of the Toad-Woman's four children (who were all bad spirits, or bear-fiends), they put out their life. When she returned with the great bear on her back, as she drew near her lodge she was astonished to see the four children standing up by the door-posts with the fat in their mouths. Question: How did the young man kill the Toad-Woman's four children? Answer: blew a strong breath in their faces
Context: He went away then, and said that he would return the next day. The next day, when his master and the other people were gone, he went to the castle of the three giants again, and he took out another steed and another suit of valour (i.e., armour), and he brought with him the second giant's sword, and he went to the place where the dragon was to come. Question: What will happen when the champion meets the dragon? Answer: The champion will defeat the dragon.
Context: Don't you remember, prince, that I was your wedded wife for four years?' ' The prince and princess went with the rest, and by the time all were safe on the lawn, down came the building, and made the ground tremble for miles round. Question: Why did the castle walls split and crack? Answer: The enchantment was broken.
Context: Once upon a time there lived at Vaero, not far from Rost, a poor fisherman, named Isaac. He wanted to get him out of the way, in order to take for himself the anchorage before Isaac's hut. Question: What did Isaac's wife feed the goats? Answer: fish leavings and the grass she was able to gather on the surrounding hills
Context: The years passed quickly by and the child grew to be fifteen years of age. He was taller and far stronger than any other boys of his own age, he had a handsome face and a heart full of courage, and he was very wise for his years. Question: What was the boy like at fifteen years of age? Answer: taller and far stronger than any other boys of his own age
Context: There is a lone moor in Scotland, which, in times past, was said to be haunted by an Elfin Knight. And although men might search every inch of the ground, no trace of him would be found, and with a thrill of horror the searching party would go home again, shaking their heads and whispering to one another that he had fallen into the hands of the dreaded Knight. Question: Who were such friends that they rode, and hunted, and fought together? Answer: Earl St. Clair and Earl Gregory
Context: The next day, amid the embers, the clerics found his corpse, and they took it up and washed it in the Boyne, and carried it to Tuilen to bury it. As they went thus, bewailing the death of Murtough and bearing him to his grave, Duivsech, wife of Murtough, met them, and when she found her husband dead, she struck her hands together and she made a great and mournful lamentation; and because weakness came upon her she leaned her back against the ancient tree that is in Aenech Reil; and a burst of blood broke from her heart, and there she died, grieving for her husband. Question: How did Duivsech die? Answer: weakness came upon her she leaned her back against the ancient tree that is in Aenech Reil
Context: Isaac's share was laid down in the forepart of the boat; and he himself took down the fish from the stands; yet he could not understand how it was that the stands were continually filled with fresh fish, no matter how many he took away, and when he sailed away they were still as full as ever. Late in the evening, when he was about to sail for home, the man came aboard and told him never to forget those who survived his neighbor, for his neighbor himself had died. Question: What happened no matter how many fish Isaac took away? Answer: The stands were continually filled with fresh fish.
Context: Once upon a time there lived at Vaero, not far from Rost, a poor fisherman, named Isaac. He wanted to get him out of the way, in order to take for himself the anchorage before Isaac's hut. Question: What did Isaac have? Answer: a boat and a couple of goats
Context: But the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner, and try to win her daughter. His mother did not think this such a bad idea, for now the youth was handsomely dressed, and made a good showing. Question: What did the youth come to as he was hopping and skipping along? Answer: the log across the swamp
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Who saw the wolf among the sheep? Answer: a shepherd
Context: Several more months went by, and at last a pill of dragon-brain vapor had also been secured. The dragon's daughter received them graciously, and they unfolded the emperor's letter. Question: What will the little dragon do when the messengers reach the the dragon-castle? Answer: crouched down and did them no harm
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." He said to her to bring news of the death of Anshgayliacht and the sword of light to the slender red champion. Whatever beast, handsome or ugly, puts the head in it, take that one with you. When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. They went on, and she went not far before she told him to give her a meal, and he gave her the bread and the bottleful. Question: How did Brown Allree clear three miles? Answer: She consumed a sixpenny loaf and a bottle.
Context: Very sorrowful was Manawyddan, but Pryderi was stout of heart, and bade him be of good cheer. Let us go now to seek Rhiannon, and the lands where she dwells.' Question: How did Manawyddan feel after his brother was slain? Answer: very sorrowful
Context: So while some were barring the gates, the young devil climbed up and took down the iron flail that had the handstaff and booltheen both made out of red-hot iron. And when he got home to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running and racing as to see himself and the flail. Question: Why was there such running and racing at home? Answer: to see Tom and the flail
Context: So Jonas and Lena used to say of him 'Look, there goes Walter, who shoots the wolves.' He had besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle, to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon as he had killed them. Question: How did Walter prepare for a real wolf hunt? Answer: took with him his drum, and his tin sabre
Context: So he came up on deck, out of the cabin, and took a look at the weather. Then he called the ship's carpenter and several others, and told them to go down at once into the ship's hold, and bore two holes in the ship's bottom. Question: How did the men feel when they heard the master mariner's orders? Answer: surprised
Context: "No, I have not abused you enough as yet," said the shepherd and aimed another arrow. If I cannot stand your abusive words, I surely will not be able to bear up against your blows," cried Stompe Pilt. Question: What happened because the shepherd was brave and did not let the stupid giant frighten him? Answer: The shepherd gained victory.
Context: The two eldest were grown up, and though they were known to be idle fellows, some of the neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother was held. But she repented bitterly of her words when Pinkel told her that he too was old enough to go out into the world, and that when he had made a fortune he would send for his mother to keep house for him. Question: Why did the widow lose patience with her eldest sons? Answer: They did not do anything at home.
Context: 'It is a marvel, truly,' said she, 'yet it would be unseemly for a man of thy dignity to hang a reptile such as this. 'If I knew any cause that I should succour it, I would take thy counsel,' answered Manawyddan, 'but I know of none. Question: How were the scholar and Kieva similar? Answer: They both wanted Manawyddan to let go of the mouse.
Context: But if he cooks gold here, I wonder what he cooks inside, there?" May God be your aid, for it is a fine service you have chosen!" Question: Who was in the fourth room? Answer: a maiden
Context: In the land of the four rivers there dwelt a man who was very rich. Yet, thanks to the Fire-God, the man had saved all his movable belongings. Question: Why was the man able to save all of his belongings? Answer: The Fire-God told the man about the fire in his house.
Context: So when they had reached the gentleman's house, and the peasant had given him the pig, he received in payment a rooster who would lay silver coins as often as he was told to do so. And at night, when the peasant was fast asleep, the old woman came and took away his rooster, and put another in its place. Question: How will the peasant feel when he discovers his rooster did not lay silver coins? Answer: angry
Context: Then the paper boat fell to pieces, and the soldier sank into the water and immediately afterwards was swallowed up by a great fish. A great deal darker than in the tunnel, and narrower too, but the tin soldier continued firm, and lay at full length shouldering his musket. Question: What happened after the boat fell to pieces? Answer: the soldier was swallowed by a fish
Context: To exact revenge, after some time the thief establishes himself as a merchant, befriends Ali Baba's son (who is now in charge of the late Cassim's business), and is invited to dinner at Ali Baba's house. The thief is recognized by Morgiana, who performs a dance with a dagger for the diners and plunges it into the heart of the thief when he is off his guard. Question: What does Ali Baba give Morgiana? Answer: her freedom and marries her to his son
Context: But Kung's little son had a somewhat pointed face, which resembled a fox's, and when he went along the street, the people would turn around and say: "There goes the fox-child!" Question: Why did people call Kung's little son a fox-child? Answer: Kung's little son had a somewhat pointed face, which resembled a fox's.
Context: The old woman at last found a nice spot by the river bank and put her basket down. Then she set to work to wash the clothes; she took them one by one out of the basket and washed them in the river and rubbed them on the stones. Question: How could the woman see tiny fish and pebbles in the water? Answer: The water was crystal clear.
Context: When things had reached this pass, the brownie told the young man that he had better ask Barbaik to marry him, and this time the girl did not turn rudely away, but listened patiently to the end. In her eyes he was as ugly and awkward as ever, but he would certainly make a most useful husband, and she could sleep every morning till breakfast time, just like a young lady, and as for the rest of the day, it would not be half long enough for all she meant to do. Question: Why did Barbaik think that Jegu would certainly make a most useful husband? Answer: She can sleep every morning till breakfast time. She can wear beautiful dresses and visit her neighbours and dance as much as she wished. He can carry on the farm as well.
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " If ever I find you come within seven miles of any town----" He said no more, but spit in his fist, and gave a flourish of his club. Sure enough, he was laying out how he'd settle poor Tom next day. " So," says Tom to the King, "will you let me have the other half of the princess if I bring you the flail?" " Question: Who had his eyes on Redhead? Answer: the wolf
Context: Only do not forget what I told you, or you will make us both unhappy." The maiden answered that all was well with her, also, and that she had all that heart could desire. Question: Why were both the parents and maiden doing well? Answer: They both had money.
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: Why did the king break the door? Answer: He couldn't get the key.
Context: In the castle there was a dragon who was over a thousand years old. Through him the dragon's daughter learned that the emperor was sending her the gifts, and she returned them with a gift of three great pearls, seven smaller pearls and a whole bushel of ordinary pearls. Question: Where did the messengers hand over their treasure of gems? Answer: Nanking, the imperial capital
Context: So they rested there that night, and in the morning Conchubar was the first to rise up. And she bade Conchubar welcome, and she told him all that had happened her, and that she had called him there to bring herself and the child back to Emain Macha. Question: What did Conchubar hear? Answer: the cry of a child
Context: Now when they had already covered a good bit of the homeward road, they passed close to a steep cliff-side where the giants dwelt. No, that I will not allow under any circumstances," answered the father, "otherwise you will be lost to me into the bargain." Question: What did the youngest want to do? Answer: set out and find his brothers again
Context: The Prince returned to his room in despair; then the Princess Hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee, and asked him, 'Why so sad, Prince Milan?' With these words she breathed on the window, and her breath froze on the pane. In the meantime the Magician was waiting impatiently for the Prince. But when his servants did so, they found the room empty, and the frozen breath laughed aloud. Question: Why did Hyacinthia breathe onto the window? Answer: so she could escape with the Prince
Context: When the day came on which the cabin-boy was to take command, the weather was fair and quiet; but he drummed up the whole ship's crew, and with the exception of a tiny bit of canvas, had all sails reefed. The captain and crew laughed at him, and said: "That shows the sort of a captain we have now. Question: What happened because a squall struck the ship? Answer: They thought they would capsize.
Context: In a nursery where a number of toys lay scattered about, a money-box stood on the top of a very high wardrobe. The money-pig was stuffed so full that it could no longer rattle, which is the highest state of perfection to which a money-pig can attain. Question: What room is the money-box in? Answer: the nursery
Context: The farmer's wife tried to comfort her, and Miss Muffet, between her sobs, said she had seen "the awfulest, biggest, blackest spider in all the world!" And she ran out and jumped into the carriage, for she was very glad to get back again to those who would care for her and not ask her to work making cheeses. Question: Why did Miss Muffet feel glad to go back? Answer: She was very glad to get back again to those who would care for her and not ask her to work making cheeses.
Context: One night, when she was lying in her pretty little bed, an old toad crept in through a broken pane in the window. She was very ugly, clumsy, and clammy; she hopped on to the table where Thumbelina lay asleep under the red rose-leaf. Question: What will the old toad do after she takes Thumbelina? Answer: put her at once on a broad water-lily leaf in the stream
Context: "We were distributed, by the King's command, from the council-houses through the various towns, and proclamation was made of our great value. Nobody thought of what was in the ground--the blessing--the potato. Question: What happened to the potatoes that were planted incorrectly? Answer: They grew and produced flowers and green watery fruit but all withered away.
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: Why didn't Earl Gregory believe in the Elfin Knight? Answer: He thought it's an old wife's tale to frighten children.
Context: 'Yes,' said Aina, 'if we had only two good meat sandwiches now.' As she said that, she felt something in her hand, and when she looked down, she saw a large sandwich of bread and chicken, and at the same time Lisa said: 'How very queer! Question: How did Aina feel after a sandwich appeared in her hand? Answer: surprised
Context: 'If you must, you must,' said he; 'there, take your own way'; and he opened his claw, and, faith, he was right--sure enough, I came down plump into the very bottom of the salt sea! Down to the very bottom I went, and I gave myself up, then, for ever, when a whale walked up to me, scratching himself after his night's sleep, and looked me full in the face, and never the word did he say, but, lifting up his tail, he splashed me all over again with the cold salt water till there wasn't a dry stitch upon my whole carcass! Question: What did Daniel say he was fairly bothered with? Answer: eagles, and men of the moons, and flying ganders, and whales
Context: 'I will do anything that will bring me back to you,' exclaimed Uraschimataro, looking at her tenderly, but the princess was silent: she knew too well that when he left her she would see his face no more. Three days and three nights they swam through the sea, and at length Uraschimataro arrived at the beach which lay before his old home. Question: How did the princess feel when Uraschimataro decided to leave? Answer: upset
Context: Take her up before you on your horse, and ride into town and marry her. So the wedding was celebrated, and when the dishes made the round, the bridegroom went out into the room where the table had been set for the old folk from the mountain. Question: What did the bridegroom see when he went into the room for the old folk? Answer: gold and silver
Context: The dog at once ran at the bird and tried to seize and kill it. But the bird struck out its spurs and flew at the dog's tail, and the fight went hard with both. Question: Why did Momotaro admire the bird? Answer: It showed so much spirit in the fight.
Context: AND while Mr. Jeremy sat disconsolately on the edge of his boat--sucking his sore fingers and peering down into the water--a MUCH worse thing happened; a really FRIGHTFUL thing it would have been, if Mr. Jeremy had not been wearing a macintosh! JEREMY bounced up to the surface of the water, like a cork and the bubbles out of a soda water bottle; and he swam with all his might to the edge of the pond. Question: What did the trout swallow? Answer: Mr. Jeremy's goloshes
Context: The roads crossed each other in the depths of the forest, and she no longer knew whither she should go! The thorns went right into her flesh, and her blood flowed in large drops, but the thornbush shot forth fresh green leaves, and there came flowers on it in the cold winter night, the heart of the afflicted mother was so warm. Question: Where did the mother end up after the thorn bush? Answer: a large lake
Context: When he came home that evening he did not eat a bit of his supper, and his stepmother said to herself that he (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain since he was not eating any of his supper. The daughter followed him and put herself in hiding, but when the heat of the day came the music began and she fell asleep. The stepmother asked the daughter did she see anything, and she said she did not. Question: What did the stepmother believe when the son did not eat a bit of his supper? Answer: He (must have) got something to eat out on the mountain.
Context: Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough; but my right eye began to smart, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and then stared, for never in all my life was I so frightened. Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see watching near the door but poor Molly. Question: Why was the neighbor so frightened? Answer: The beautiful room was a big, rough clay; and the lady, and the lord, and the child weazened, poverty-bitten creatures and the rich dresses were old rags.
Context: At this moment the wind came rushing round the corner of the street and through the air-holes of the old lamp. " I will also blow a memory into you, so that, should you receive other similar presents, your old age will pass very pleasantly." " Question: Why was the lamp able to see everything that happened so clearly? Answer: because of the wind's gift
Context: So he came to the brook, and stooped to drink, but the heavy stones weighed him down, so he fell over into the water and was drowned. they cried, and taking hands, they danced with their mother all about the place. Question: What happened when the wolf come to the brook? Answer: The heavy stones weighed him down so he fell over into the water and was drowned.
Context: 'Don't worry or distress yourself, dear father,' answered Prince Milan. ' Not far from the shore Prince Milan noticed thirty little white garments lying on the grass, and dismounting from his horse, he crept down under the high bulrushes, took one of the garments and hid himself with it behind the bushes which grew round the lake. Question: What happened after much weeping and lamentation? Answer: The Prince bade them all farewell and set forth on his journey.
Context: JEMIMA PUDDLE-DUCK went up the cart-road for the last time, on a sunny afternoon. HE was sitting on a log; he sniffed the air, and kept glancing uneasily round the wood. Question: What happened when Jemina entered into the ouse? Answer: Someone with a black nose sniffed at the bottom of the door, and then locked it.
Context: He showed her his whistle, and blew into one end, and all the hares darted away across the hills in all directions, and then he blew into the other, and they came trotting up from all sides, and once more stood in rank and file. " Yes, indeed, that would suit her right down to the ground; she would gladly give him two kisses with every dollar, and feel grateful, besides. Question: Why did the chamber-maid want to buy the whistle? Answer: She was impressed by it.
Context: A moment more and his brothers and sisters, and their parents and friends, were transformed into birds of various plumage. He again cast his eyes in the direction of the clouds, and uttered the peculiar cry which had given him the victory at the rock. Question: Where did Osseo's father live? Answer: in the Evening Star
Context: It seemed a very long time to her to wait till her husband returned. He seemed very tired and used the scythe for a walking stick, leaning on it as he walked along. Question: Why could the woman hardly see her husband? Answer: He was hidden by the big bundle of grass on his back.
Context: "Come hither, come hither," they shouted; "come tread a measure with us, and afterwards we will drink to thee out of our Monarch's loving cup." And, strange as it may seem, the spell that had been cast over the young Earl was so powerful that, in spite of his fear, he felt that he must obey the eldrich summons, and he threw his bridle on his horse's neck and prepared to join them. Question: What did the old and grizzled Goblin do to talk to Earl Gregory? Answer: stopped at the edge of it; then, stooping down and pretending to pick up something, he whispered in a hoarse whisper
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: What did Earl St. Clair do after he stepped on solid ground once more? Answer: flung the enchanted goblet from him
Context: I must lock my door against the wild hunters, so, in order that I may know you, you must knock and say, 'Little sister, let me in,' and unless I hear that I shall not unlock the door." Then the fawn sprang out, and felt glad and merry in the open air. Question: How did the fawn feel when he left the hosue? Answer: glad and merry
Context: Ah, well, if the little lady were only here with me in the boat, I should not care for any darkness." Suddenly there appeared a great water-rat, who lived in the drain. " Question: Who appeared in the drain? Answer: a great water rat
Context: Before he had time to defend himself my unhappy lover was swallowed up by the dragon. "I love you already better than anyone in the world," she said; "but now it is time to go back to your father, and we shall hear what he says about it." Question: What did the fairies do for the White Cat to believe that she was their child? Answer: laid the White Cat under the enchantment as the fairies told her all of her history
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: What did the king do when the wolf made out for him? Answer: cried out to stop the hounds
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived in the little back room. His father, it is true, was of the opinion that there might be other work that would suit him better, for whoever was to herd hares would have to be quick and spry, and not a sleepy-head. Question: What did Peter do when he heard the king wanted a shepherd? Answer: told his father he would apply for the position, as it would suit him
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: Where did the country folk believe Thomas went to? Answer: Fairy-land
Context: 'I will tell you who I am,' said the old man; 'I am the raspberry king, who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and I have lived here for more than a thousand years. Now yesterday was just my transformation day, and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to death if you had not saved my life. Question: What did the great spirit do to the raspberry king? Answer: one day every hundred years he should change into a little raspberry worm, and live in that weak and helpless form from sunrise to sunset
Context: He turned round with a start to see the little woman with the green dress and scarlet stockings, who had remonstrated with him for lifting the turf the year before, standing by his side. "The divots which you took from the roof of my house have grown once more," she said, "and once more it is covered with grass. Question: Why did the small woman release the poor man from the spell? Answer: Her house was covered in grass again.
Context: Well, when the sticks were all burned Tom was sent off again to pick more. You may come and gather sticks here till little Lunacy Day in harvest without giant or fairy man to disturb you." So this--he wasn't a bellman, and I don't know what to call him--bugleman, maybe--proclaimed that the King of Dublin's daughter was so melancholy that she didn't give a laugh for seven years, and that her father would grant her in marriage to whoever would make her laugh three times. " Question: Who did Tom have to fight with this time? Answer: a giant with two heads on him
Context: For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her. I will lie here and rest under this tree,' he said to his attendants. ' 'I cannot tell--I did not dare to ask her; but perhaps she would tell you.' 'Once every month I and my friends shoot birds in the forest,' he answered, 'but I was tired and bade them leave me to rest. Question: How did the girl feel after she had to live in the forest? Answer: sad
Context: Then they rushed to the door in great fear, for they said that the boy was torn in pieces; but when the bolts were drawn back and they sprang forth, eager to save the boy's life, they found the dog dead, and Setanta standing over him with his hurle, for he had sprung over the foss, not fearing the dog. Forthwith, then, his tutor, Fergus Mac Roy, snatched him up on his shoulder, and returned with great joy into the banquet hall, where all were well pleased at the preservation of the boy, except Culain himself, who began to lament over the death of his dog and to enumerate all the services which he rendered to him. Question: What was Culain lamenting over? Answer: the death of his dog
Context: When he had gone on a few miles, he saw in the distance a girl in a red coat, barefoot, and with unbound hair, who was running as fast as the wind. When the monk asked her what was the trouble, she replied: "A man is pursuing me. Question: Why did the girl ask the old Buddhist monk to save her life? Answer: A man was pursuing her.
Context: The whole day the Snow-man looked through the window; towards dusk the room grew still more inviting; the stove gave out a mild light, not at all like the moon or even the sun; no, as only a stove can shine, when it has something to feed upon. When the door of the room was open, it flared up-this was one of its peculiarities; it flickered quite red upon the Snow-man's white face. Question: What did the Snow-man do for the whole day? Answer: looked through the window
Context: Of course the king and queen would have preferred a daughter-in-law with two hands, and one who could have brought riches with her, but they could not bear to say 'No' to their son, so they told him it should be as he chose, and that the wedding feast should be prepared immediately. By and bye a baby was born to her, and soon after that the prince was sent on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant towns of the kingdom, and to set right things that had gone wrong. Question: What happened after the girl and the prince got married? Answer: A baby was born to her.
Context: Ali Baba borrows his sister-in-law's scales to weigh this new wealth of gold coins. Cassim goes to the cave and enters with the magic words, but in his greed and excitement over the treasures forgets the magic words to get back out again. Question: How does Ali Baba's sister-in-law feel when she finds a gold coin sticking to the scales? Answer: shock
Context: As many children as these I should have, and now I am withered, grey, at the end of my life, and I have not one at all." And the King said to me, "I will give you your own child, as it is you who have earned him best; but you must come to my court every year, and the child with you, and I will share with you my possessions." Question: Who was the hag's son? Answer: Anshgayliacht
Context: The gulls flew in immense numbers around him, and were ready to devour him. Owasso, in his flight over the lake, saw him lying on his back in the boat, taking a nap, which was quite natural, as the day was very soft and balmy. Question: Why did the birds obey Owasso's words? Answer: They saw nothing unreasonable in his request.
Context: He always came to visit at our house and he and my master would talk and drink together. One day my master said to him: "We administrative mandarins have a large salary and a good income besides. We officers are compelled to find some additional sources of revenue in order that our pockets may not be altogether empty. Question: What will happen after Wang hears about his master's crimes? Answer: Wang will want to disclose his master's crimes to the State.
Context: Little Miss Muffet had never eaten curds and whey before, and did not know how they tasted; but she was very hungry, so she took the dish and went into the orchard. The girl had never seen such an enormous and hideous-looking spider before, and she was so frightened that she gave a scream and tipped backward off the tuffet, spilling the curds and whey all over her dress as she did so. Question: How did Miss Muffet feel when she saw the black spider? Answer: frightened
Context: Mike by the Stove thought that things were going from bad to worse, and this was the truth, since the further he went the warmer it grew. When he had come with her to the mill-pond, and had given her water, she came completely out of the lemon. Question: Who did Mike by the Stove meet when he was searching for water? Answer: the king's miller
Context: He tried to feed it a few bread-crumbs,
but the little dog only sniffed at them and let them lie. When the
night had passed the scholar feared it might have run away; but there
it lay, curled up as before. Question: What did the little hunting dog do after it did not eat the bread crumbs? Answer: leaped into the bed and hunted up some nits and gnats in the folds of the linen, which it devoured
Context: But the wily Fox was fond of butter, and he made up his mind that he would have it all to himself. It behoveth us to have foresight, and to lay up in store for the spring, when the grain is all threshed, and the stackyards are bare, and the poultry have gone to market. Question: What did the Fox want to eat with the butter? Answer: grain, fat ducks, and poultry
Context: The maiden seated herself on the back of the South Wind, and he flew away with a roar and a rush. She wishes to ask you whether you have ever been there, and if you can show her the road that leads to it. Question: What happened because the North Wind cried as soon as he caught sight of them? Answer: A cold shiver ran down their backs.
Context: "At nine o'clock the lecturer commenced his lecture and his experiments, and then I formed a part of his audience. The greater part of it was beyond my comprehension, but it led me to think that if we men can acquire so much, we must surely be intended to last longer than the little span which extends only to the time when we are hidden away under the earth. Question: how did the elderly man while watching the lectures and experiments? Answer: amazed
Context: 'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck, and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest. So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some pieces of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes. Question: What happened after the fish tribe gave up on lighting the fire? Answer: A fish offered to help them.
Context: The wife listened to all her husband told her, and was pleased at learning so much that was new to her. It seemed to the little family as if they had not known what true happiness was before, so glad were they to be together again, and this evening the father had much to tell of his journey and of all he had seen at the great capital. Question: What did the wife do because her husband was tired? Answer: set about serving the evening meal and making everything as comfortable as she could
Context: The man drove off on his way, and John crossed the hill to his home. There stood the giant gate of the Jutulsberg wide open, and out of it streamed a light and radiance as of thousands of candles. Question: What remained as long as John had lived? Answer: John's head was twisted.
Context: Just as I was falling asleep last night, I heard a horse's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door, and there, when I came out, was a fine-looking dark man, mounted on a black horse, and he told me to get ready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. The lady clapped her hands, and in came the Dark Man and kissed her and the baby, and praised me, and gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over. Question: What did the neighbor hear last night? Answer: a horse's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door
Context: He was lying in the road beating his wings, and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved. " I have not much food, nor are you likely to be able to help me much," said the king's son, "but still I can give you a little, for it is easy to see you need it." Question: What was the salmon doing when the youngest reached the brook? Answer: gotten on dry land and was threshing about and could not get back into the water
Context: Maidwa's pack for traveling was now ready, and he was taking his farewell smoke, when the young magician thus addressed him: "My friend Maidwa, you know for what cause you came thus far, and why you have risked so much and waited so long. He then spoke in a language which Maidwa did not understand, the curtain of the lodge parted, and the Red Swan met his gaze. She is worthy of you, and what you have done for me merits more. Question: What will Maidwa do to the Red Swan? Answer: marry her
Context: The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! The crane so addressed was of extraordinary size, and had arrived at a great old age, and, as might be expected, he sat, when first descried by the two sons, in a state of profound thought, revolving his long experience of life there in the midst of the most violent eddies. Question: What will happen if the boys touch the crown of the old crane's head? Answer: The crane shall not be able to avoid throwing them both in the rapids.
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Come, tell me of your adventures, and what strange lands you have been to see. "I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. Question: How did the men pass the night together? Answer: They talked about nature.
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: What made the old man take the flower home? Answer: The flower was beautiful.
Context: "I am able to affirm with word of oath, that each prize--at least, those for which I voted--was given with just and proper consideration," said the old boundary post in the wood, who was a member of the committee of judges. " I always reckon the first prize by going through the alphabet from the beginning, and the second by going through from the end. Question: Who was a member of the committee of judges? Answer: the old boundary post
Context: In the centre of the large apartment a great troop of Fairies, Elves, and Sprites were dancing reels as hard as they could to the music of a tiny set of bagpipes. When they saw that he was not hurt, they bowed gravely and bade him be seated. Question: What will Farquhar do after he sees a great troop of Fairies, Elves, and Sprites dancing? Answer: He will ask to join them.
Context: Then the scholar said: "I have a means of driving away old age!" Then his son and the older grand-children
came up and all asked for a drink of the wine. Question: What happened when the Liu Tschen's wife had taken three glasses? Answer: her white hair gradually turned black again, her wrinkles disappeared, and she sat beside her husband, a handsome young woman.
Context: They asked of her, "Who art thou, maiden, and wherefore art thou come to the house of mourning? And though it was I who wrought his death, I myself will die for grief of him." Moreover, in his time the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin were scattered and destroyed, the folk of the underworld and of my fatherland; and to avenge the wrong and loss he wrought on them I slew the man I loved. Question: How did Sheen feel killing the king? Answer: sad
Context: There lived a hunter in the North, who had a wife and one child. There was something so peculiar in their looks, air and manner, that she was disturbed by their presence. Question: Where was the hunter's lodge? Answer: far off in the forest, several days' journey from any other
Context: The little hare then vanished; the youth did as he was bid, and the castle servants never noticed that he was carrying off the Golden Bird. Then they continued their journey, taking with them the Porcelain Maiden, in the firm belief that their brother was drowned. Question: Why did the two older brothers throw themselves upon the youngest brother? Answer: the two elder brothers were jealous of the success of the youngest
Context: Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife, who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. The brother's wife was overjoyed at the sight of the fruit, and when she tasted it, she declared it was the nicest she had ever eaten. Question: How did the brother's wife feel after she could not eat another pumpkin? Answer: sad
Context: He found himself tucked up in a little moss bed, very much in the dark, feeling sore; it seemed to be under ground. THE Chipmunk explained that it had rained nuts through the top of the tree--"Besides, I found a few buried!" Question: Why did Timmy Tiptoes grow fatter? Answer: He was confined to the bed.
Context: The little old woman who makes war was in an excellent humor, and she received Strong Desire with rejoicing. She admired his prudence, and assured him his bravery should never be questioned again. Question: How did the witch feel when she received Strong Desire? Answer: rejoice
Context: But it took no notice, and just grew and grew; there it stood fresh and green in winter and summer, and all who saw it said, 'What a beautiful tree!' It could not think of happiness, it was sad at leaving its home, the spot where it had sprung up; it knew, too, that it would never see again its dear old companions, or the little shrubs and flowers, perhaps not even the birds. Question: How did the fir-tree feel when it was cut down? Answer: bruised and faint
Context: "Because they have not treated me with the respect due to a stranger," replied the boy. He placed himself under the tuition of Fergus Mac Roy, who, each day, grew more and more proud of his pupil, for while still a boy his fame was extending over Ulla. Question: Why was Setanta so enraged? Answer: They have not treated him with the respect due to a stranger.
Context: It chanced, one dark December night, that there was a dreadful storm at sea, and in the morning the beach was all strewn with wreckage. So as soon as it was daylight the two friends went down to the shore to see if they could find anything to eat. Question: Why did the Fox and the Wolf go down to the shore? Answer: see if they could find anything to eat
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: What did Per Gynt intend to do in Hovringalm? Answer: stay over-night
Context: Once upon a time there was a woman who had seven hungry children, and she was baking pancakes for them. There was dough made with new milk, and it lay in the pan, and was rising so plumply and comfortably, that it was a pleasure to watch it. Question: What did the woman do because her children were hungry? Answer: baked pancakes for them
Context: The next morning the wolf sent the wild boar to call out the dog; and to appoint a meeting in the wood to receive satisfaction from him. Old Sultan could find no second but a cat with three legs; and as they set off together, the poor thing went limping along, holding her tail up in the air. Question: Who did the wolf send to call out the dog? Answer: The wild boar
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: What did the young man carry in his hand? Answer: a bunch of flowers
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: What will happen after the Queen leaves for Fairy-land? Answer: Thomas will become famous for his powers.
Context: I shall be happier in my present state than I could have been as a man. I will cheer you by my songs, and strive to inspire in others the joy and lightsomeness of heart I feel in my present state. Question: How will Iadilla compensate his father's loss of glory? Answer: Iadilla will cheer his father by his songs, and strive to inspire in others the joy and lightsomeness of heart he feels in his present state.
Context: "Brothers," said Gray Eagle, as soon as they were gathered around, and questioned him as to the extent of his injuries, "an accident has befallen me, but let not this prevent your going to a warmer climate. We will share your sufferings; we will abandon our journey, and take care of you as you did of us before we were able to take care of ourselves. Question: Why would the falcons want to go to a warmer climate? Answer: They could die from the cold climate.
Context: But once he took a nap in the daytime, and the little dog crawled into
bed beside him. As he did so he felt something, and feared it might be
his little dog. Question: Why did the hunting dog die? Answer: The scholar accidentally squished it.
Context: "It was all very strange," answered the inn-keeper, "and my mother who had been very busy in his house, came home and fell into a violent fever. She came to on the very day when the news of Sir Wang's death was made public, and said: 'I have been to the Nether World and I met him there. Question: What did Wang tell the inn-keeper's mother to do? Answer: told the inn-keeper's mother to ask his wife
Context: And when the dark night was coming on, Conchubar said to his people, "It is best for us to unyoke the chariots now, and to look for some place where we can spend the night." A man and a woman were in it, and when they saw him they said, "Bring your companions here along with you, and they will be welcome." Then Bricriu went on himself to the place where the house was. Question: Who stood at the door of the grand, new, well-lighted house? Answer: a young man wearing armour
Context: When the bride heard that, she came from behind the cask, and had to make her way among the sleepers lying all about on the ground, and she felt very much afraid lest she might awaken any of them. But by good luck she passed through, and the old woman with her, and they opened the door, and they made all haste to leave that house of murderers. Question: Who did the girl tell about all that had happened to her? Answer: her father
Context: As he emerged from the forest the sun was falling in the west, and it cast its scarlet and golden shades far over the country. The air was perfectly calm, and the whole prospect had the air of an enchanted land. Question: What did Kwasynd see the women doing at the village? Answer: beating corn
Context: The giant wondered more and more at this; yet he did not answer a word, but went to bring two great bowls of hasty-pudding for their breakfast. Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as himself, so he contrived to button a leathern bag inside his coat, and slip the hasty-pudding into this bag, while he seemed to put it into his mouth. Question: What happened when Jack rup up the leathern bag? Answer: All the hasty-pudding tumbled out upon the floor.
Context: The two eldest were grown up, and though they were known to be idle fellows, some of the neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother was held. But at the time this story begins they had both been so careless and idle that their masters declared they would keep them no longer. He was a clever and amusing boy, who saw everything that passed under his eyes, and the king noticed this, and often employed him in his own service, which made his brothers very jealous. So when, as before, the king came down to the stables and praised the cleverness of their brother, the young men told him of that other marvel possessed by the witch, the goat with the golden horns. As may be supposed, the brothers were more furious than ever, and grew quite thin with rage. Question: How did the two eldest brothers feel about Pinkel's employment under the king? Answer: dislike
Context: So he went along its length, "for sooner or later I will come to the end of it," thought he. As he went along he again struck against something, and when he felt it, it was again something cold, and large and slippery. Question: What was the cold, and large, and slippery? Answer: the crooked one
Context: One of the sons sat at the rudder, the second at the bow, and the third in the middle. When the boat was filled, they sailed home again to Udrost, and the sons cleaned the fish, and laid them on the stands. Question: What did the man give Isaac when he did not catch any fish? Answer: a couple hooks
Context: When he came up to the shore he was surprised to see four large, tall men, lying on the ice, spearing fish. Seeing these four faces, as if they had been one, the little spirit or boy-man said to himself:  "Four in one! Question: What did the boy see when he came up to the shore? Answer: four large, tall men, lying on the ice, spearing fish
Context: If he had done so all the rest of his life might have been different. And, before Dick knew what he was about, a perfect whirlwind of cold, raw air tore through the cavern, carrying the luckless horse-dealer along with it. Question: What happened after Canonbie Dick tried to pick up the Sword? Answer: A perfect whirlwind of cold, raw air tore through the cavern, carrying the luckless horse-dealer along with it; and, hurrying him along the narrow passage through which he had entered, dashed him down outside on a bank of loose stones and shale.
Context: Whatever might happen, it seemed certain that the lamp would be separated from the watchman and his wife, whose family it looked upon as its own. His wife had some little pride in those days; she condescended to glance at the lamp only when she passed by in the evening--never in the daytime. Question: What did the watchman's wife use to clean the streetlamp? Answer: oil
Context: Two holes were left for the eyes, and Ivan carefully shaped out the mouth. And the loose snow fell away from Snowflake as an egg shell does from an egg, and it was a little girl whom Marie held in her arms. Question: Why did Marie believed that heaven sent them a child? Answer: The snow-child moved its little arms and its little legs in the snow that lay about it just as the living children did theirs.
Context: In this way, sometimes by using his wisdom and sometimes by using his bodily strength, and at other times by resorting to craftiness, which was as much esteemed in those days as it is despised in these, he prevailed against all the King's foes one by one, and brought peace and rest to the land and the people. From this time forth the King loved him more than ever and would not let Yamato Take go from his side, for he said that his son was now as precious to him as one of his arms. Question: What did Yamato use to take down the King's foes? Answer: his wisdom
Context: Then Jack my Hedgehog set off for the first kingdom, and there the King had given strict orders that if anyone should be seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe he was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace. And with that he hunted her home, and she felt she had been disgraced and put to shame till her life's end. Question: What did the King give orders to do if anyone is seen riding a cock and carrying a bagpipe? Answer: He was to be chased away and shot at, and on no account to be allowed to enter the palace.
Context: The insignia of the great Japanese Empire is composed of three treasures which have been considered sacred, and guarded with jealous care from time immemorial. These are the Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata, the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami, and the Murakumo-no-Tsurugi or the Sword of Murakumo. Question: Why was the sword of Murakumo considered the most precious? Answer: It is the symbol of strength to this nation of warriors and the talisman of invincibility for the Emperor
Context: After all the Prince was the first to arrive at the castle where he had agreed to meet his brothers, but they came soon after, and stared in amazement when they saw the wooden horse in the courtyard jumping like a hunter. Question: What did the princes do after seeing the wooden horse? Answer: stared in amazement
Context: The roads crossed each other in the depths of the forest, and she no longer knew whither she should go! The thorns went right into her flesh, and her blood flowed in large drops, but the thornbush shot forth fresh green leaves, and there came flowers on it in the cold winter night, the heart of the afflicted mother was so warm. Question: What hung on the thorn bush's branches? Answer: ice flakes
Context: "Hold a minute," interposed the kettle, as Maidwa was about to dip in his ladle. As soon as Maidwa had partaken of food and laid aside his leggings and moccasins, the old magician commenced telling him how he had lost his scalp, the insults it was receiving, the pain he suffered thereby, his wishes to regain it, the many unsuccessful attempts that had already been made, and the numbers and power of those who retained it. Question: What happened after Maidwa ate and laid aside his leggings and moccasins? Answer: The old magician commenced telling him how he had lost his scalp, the insults it was receiving, the pain he suffered thereby, his wishes to regain it, the many unsuccessful attempts that had already been made, and the numbers and power of those who retained it.
Context: He rushed out of his hill with a hunk of flint-rock in his fist. "And I will squash you till the water runs out, just as I squash this stone!" Question: What will the shepherd do to the giant? Answer: trick the giant
Context: So Jonas and Lena used to say of him 'Look, there goes Walter, who shoots the wolves.' He had besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle, to cut off the ears of the wolves as soon as he had killed them. Question: Why did Walter's drum have holes in one end? Answer: He had climbed up on it to reach a cluster of rowan berries.
Context: Then they led them into the cave and served them with tea and wine. "I have been destined for the lord Liu," said the maiden in the red
gown; "and my sister is for the lord Yuan!" Question: Where did the two maidens lead the scholars? Answer: into the cave
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: What did Sentaro's adventures turn out to be? Answer: a wild dream
Context: In the middle of the plain he perceived a post, and something waving at its top. As he passed some of those who were standing by, he came close to their ears, and as they heard the rapid whirr or murmur which this bird makes when it flies, they jumped aside, and asked each other what it could be. Question: What did Maidwa change himself into? Answer: a humming-bird
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: What will happen after the husband is not able to get the unfinished houses back? Answer: His wife will keep trying to fight for the unfinished houses.
Context: Walter is six years old, and he must soon begin to go to school. He was wonderfully brave when he was in the midst of his companions or at home with his brothers and sister, then he used often to say 'One wolf is nothing, there ought to be at least four.' Question: Who did Walter wrestle with? Answer: Klas Bogenstrom or Frithiof Waderfelt
Context: Now all that night it had rained heavily, and did not seem likely to stop, and in some places the road was so thick with mud that it was almost impossible to get across it. In one spot it was so very bad that a mule laden with baggage had got stuck in it, and tug as he might, his master was quite unable to pull him out. Question: What made the mule laden with baggage stuck? Answer: The road was so thick with mud.
Context: So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, which troubled both the king and the queen greatly. Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent's hearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting into his litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten all along the road. Question: How did the queen and king feel after they heard the prince was unwell? Answer: concerned
Context: So, about the time that she expected her husband home from work, she got out her spinning-wheel, and sat busily turning it, taking care not even to look up from her work when the man came in. For some minutes he stood with his mouth open watching her, and as she still remained silent, he said at last:  'Have you gone mad, wife, that you sit spinning without anything on the wheel?' Question: What does the husband say after the wife says that there is a large skein of wool? Answer: He praises his wife and says that he begins to see something.
Context: In time she told them all that had happened to her, and they didn't know what to advise her to do. She was as fond of her husband as ever, and said she was sure that he couldn't help letting the children go; but still she was afraid beyond the world to have another child torn from her. Question: What did the wise woman tell the family to do? Answer: secure the bear's skin that the prince was obliged to put on every morning, and get it burned, and then he couldn't help being a man night and day, and the enchantment would be at an end
Context: Round about the garden ran a hedge of hazel-bushes; beyond the hedge were fields and meadows with cows and sheep; but in the middle of the garden stood a Rose-tree in bloom, under which sat a Snail, whose shell contained a great deal--that is, himself. " Only wait till my time comes," he said; "I shall do more than grow roses, bear nuts, or give milk, like the hazel-bush, the cows and the sheep." " Question: What stood in the middle of the garden? Answer: a rose tree
Context: With this he wandered out into the crab settlement and crept about as slyly as possible near the crab's house and tried to hear the neighbors' gossip round about. He wanted to find out what the crabs were saying about their chief's death, for the old crab had been the chief of the tribe. Question: Where did the monkey go? Answer: the crab settlement
Context: There was a man in it long ago, and long ago it was, and if he was in it then he would not be in it now. When he had his enough eaten and drunk, he put the table-cloth back again, and left the horn back in the place where it was before. Question: What happened on the day that there was great hunger on the son? Answer: The bracket bull heard him complaining and wringing his two hands.
Context: You certainly know that every person has his or her life's tree or flower, just as everyone happens to be settled. I have nothing to give," said the afflicted mother, "but I will go to the world's end for you!" " Question: What does the old woman ask for in return for help? Answer: the mother's long black hair
Context: Then came with crashing steps the owner of several whirlwinds, which were in the habit of raging about in the neighboring country. And following this one, glided in a sweet-spoken, gentle-faced little Spirit, who was understood to represent a summer-gale that was accustomed to blow, toward evening, in at the lodge-doors, and to be particularly well disposed toward young lovers. Question: Why did the wicked Island Spirit look grim enough at Wassamo's wife? Answer: She had rejected him.
Context: He sat there with her all day long, for they had soon agreed that they would marry, he and the king's daughter, and in this way his first day in the giant's service did not weary him at all. When he got there he thought he would try out her advice, and began to use the shovel as he had seen his father's grooms use it. Question: What did the king's son and maiden agree? Answer: They would marry.
Context: Then they went their way deeper into the wood, and in the middle of it, where it was thickest and darkest, they came upon a little enchanted house which stood empty. So they went forth into the wood, and shot hares and roe-deer, birds and wood-pigeons, and any other game they came across. Question: What happened when the brothers brought their spoils home? Answer: Benjamin soon learnt to make them into dainty dishes.
Context: Then the whole company of crocodiles arranged themselves in the water so as to form a bridge between the Island of Oki and the mainland of Inaba. So the hare hopped off the island on to the strange bridge of crocodiles, counting as he jumped from one crocodile's back to the other:  "Please keep quite still, or I shall not be able to count. Question: How will the crocodile feel when he realizes a trick has been played? Answer: angry
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. In it there was but one youthful champion, and he playing hurly from prow to stern of the currach. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. Question: Who won the first game? Answer: Morraha
Context: Full of surprise the woman jumped up and pulled the bar away from the door. 'No, no, you shan't do that,' cried the king, 'or if you do, it will be your own fault. Question: What did the king notice after he entered the house? Answer: There was no furniture in the room at all, not even a chair.
Context: At one time a buffalo would gain handsomely upon Aggo, and be just at the point of laying hold of him, when off Aggo would hop, a good furlong, in an oblique line, wide out of his reach; which bringing him nearly in contact with another of the herd, away he would go again, just as far off in another direction. It was an extraordinary road that Aggo was taking toward home; and after a time it so puzzled and bewildered the buffalos that they were driven half out of their wits, and they roared, and brandished their tails, and foamed, as if they would put out of countenance and frighten out of sight the old man in the moon, who was looking on all the time, just above the edge of the prairie. Question: Why did the king flee? Answer: He lost at last all patience at the absurd idea of chasing a man with one leg all night long.
Context: Once upon a time there was a fisherman who had a wife and three children. When he came home he put all the fishes together into a great dish, but he kept the Crab separate because it shone so beautifully, and placed it upon a high shelf in the cupboard. Question: Who caught a golden crab? Answer: the fisherman
Context: He forgot his errand, he forgot his home, and he forgot everything that had ever happened to him. Time passed by, and one night he and a band of merry companions set out for a long journey through the air. Question: Why did Farquhar and a band of merry companions set out for a long journey? Answer: intended to pay a visit to the Man in the Moon
Context: Well, that would not be much of a task, said the women, and agreed to the proposal. But no sooner had she taken the shirt in her hand, than it began to look worse, and the more she washed and rubbed, the larger and blacker grew the spots. Question: What happened when the princess washed and rubbed the spots? Answer: the larger grew the spots
Context: The ferny road was not so bonnie all the way as it had been at first, however. There was a sound of rushing water everywhere, and at last the grey palfrey plunged right into it; and it crept up, cold and chill, first over Thomas's feet, and then over his knees. Question: How did Thomas feel after he parted from the daylight? Answer: scared
Context: When the Prince did not return, poor Hyacinthia wept bitterly and changing herself from a milestone into a little blue field flower, she said, 'I will grow here on the wayside till some passer-by tramples me under foot.' When he came home at midday, he found a table laid out with the most dainty food, and he had only to sit down and enjoy himself to his heart's content. Question: What happened to one of Hyacinthia's tears when she cried? Answer: remained as a dewdrop and sparkled on the little blue flower
Context: She said, "I would like to go to the place of the breaking of daylight. But," he resumed, "before we part forever, I must go and try to find what manitoes rule the earth, and see which of them will be friendly to us." Question: Why will Dais-Imid call himself the Little Wild Man of the Mountains? Answer: He lives on the mountains and rocks.
Context: Now when the girl had grown old enough to make distinctions, and had acquired some sense, it chanced that her foster-mother once wished to take a journey. " When her foster-mother came home, she was much grieved to find that the star had flown out, and was so annoyed with her foster-child that she threatened to send her away. Question: What did the foster-mother wish to do? Answer: take a journey
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: What did the prince do after the youngest princess went to get her baby back? Answer: caught her, and looked at her very seriously
Context: Strange to say, as soon as she began to repeat this little song the peach began to come nearer and nearer the bank where the old woman was standing, till at last it stopped just in front of her so that she was able to take it up in her hands. She could not go on with her work, so happy and excited was she, so she put all the clothes back in her bamboo basket, and with the basket on her back and the peach in her hand she hurried homewards. Question: Where did the woman hurry to? Answer: homewards
Context: And then, without being wet, he found himself suddenly swimming on the surface of the river. He swam to the shore, and as he walked along the river-bank, his thoughts went back to his old mother. Question: How will Aduan's mother feel when she sees him? Answer: joy
Context: But it is a woman's danger to be petty and mean, and step-mothers are proverbial all the world over, and this one's heart was not as her first smiles were. Instead of lessening his affection for his daughter, as the woman desired, her grumblings only made him think of her the more. Question: How did the step-mother treat the daughter? Answer: unkindly
Context: So he took pen and ink and wrote something, and when he had done Jack my Hedgehog pointed out the way and the King got safely home. Then the King remembered Jack my Hedgehog, and he told his daughter how he had been obliged to give a written promise to bestow whatever he first met when he got home on an extraordinary creature which had shown him the way. Question: Who saw the King returning in the distance? Answer: the King's daughter
Context: Long, long ago, there lived an old farmer and his wife who had made their home in the mountains, far from any town. So he lay in wait day after day and night after night, with a big club, hoping to catch the badger, but all in vain. Question: Where did the old farmer and his wife make their home? Answer: in the mountains, far from any town
Context: Wassamo felt himself moved, he knew not how, and placed upon a couch. It keeps me very busy, but I am hale for my age, and I love to be employed. I have often wished to get one of your race to marry among us. He was silent, and the Old Spirit continued: "Your wants will all be supplied; but you must be careful not to stray far from the lodge. Question: Why did Wassamo drop his head and make no answer? Answer: He did not agree to the Old Spirit-man's wish.
Context: "He would need to be a brave man who asks to go home with me," returned the stranger; "but, if thou wilt, thou canst follow me. From its shape, was called by the country-folk the "Lucken Hare." Question: What did the stranger do when Canonbie Dick asked to go home with him and have a little refreshment? Answer: The stranger gave him a warning.
Context: She began to cry, and made such a noise that all the neighbours heard her and put their heads out of the windows, to see what was the matter. ' And so she lamented all day and all night, till the poor man was nearly worried to death; and at last he did what she wished, and summoned his brother in a court of law to give up the houses which, he said, had only been lent to him. Question: How will the wife feel after the judge favors the poor man? Answer: furious
Context: "Now I do not see the smallest thing," said the young man, "and now I don't hear anything more." "Why, then, you can't be a poet by Easter," said the wise woman. Question: Why does the wise woman order the young man to hunt the poets? Answer: to support himself and his wife
Context: Hase-Hime was a skilled musician though so young, and often astonished her masters by her wonderful memory and talent. There was also now another reason why Princess Terute hated her step-daughter, for she had had the good fortune to have a son born to her, and in her inmost heart she kept saying:  "If only Hase-Hime were not here, my son would have all the love of his father." Question: How did Princess Terute feel because she failed? Answer: furiously jealous
Context: But here the other giant drew him aside, and for a moment or two they whispered together. At length the first giant spoke:  'To please my friend I will spare your life on condition that, for the future, you shall guard our treasures. Question: What did the first giant want Jack to do in exchange for sparing his life? Answer: guard their treasures
Context: Long before the time of Fu Hi, Dschu Yung, the Magic Welder, was the ruler of men. In the skies the Fiery Star, the southern quarter of the heavens and the Red Bird belong to his domain. Question: Who was the ruler of men? Answer: Fu Hi
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: What did the master do when the poor man told him what happened? Answer: laughed
Context: There was once a king in Ireland, and he had three daughters, and very nice princesses they were. And one day, when they and their father were walking on the lawn, the king began to joke with them, and to ask them whom they would like to be married to. ' Question: Who did the youngest princess want to marry? Answer: the Brown Bear of Norway
Context: Long, long ago there lived an old man and his wife who supported themselves by cultivating a small plot of land. Indeed, they loved him so much that whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro. Question: What happened because the old man and his wife loved the dog so much? Answer: Whenever they had anything nice to eat they denied themselves to give it to Shiro.
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: Who did the boys run around? Answer: Conchubar Mac Nessa and his knight
Context: The young Prince bowed low before his aunt, and received her gracious gift with much pleasure and many respectful bows. "I will now set out," said the Prince, and returning to the Palace he put himself at the head of his troops. Question: Where was the home of the brigands? Answer: the Southern Island of Kyushu
Context: In time past--we can not tell exactly how many, many years ago--a poor Indian was living, with his wife and children, in a beautiful part of the country. He even stood in the door of his lodge to bless the birds that flew past in the summer evenings. Question: Why couldn't the children help procure food for the family? Answer: They were all too young to give assistance.
Context: 'If you must, you must,' said he; 'there, take your own way'; and he opened his claw, and, faith, he was right--sure enough, I came down plump into the very bottom of the salt sea! Down to the very bottom I went, and I gave myself up, then, for ever, when a whale walked up to me, scratching himself after his night's sleep, and looked me full in the face, and never the word did he say, but, lifting up his tail, he splashed me all over again with the cold salt water till there wasn't a dry stitch upon my whole carcass! Question: What happened to Daniel after he made a request to the goose? Answer: He came down plump into the very bottom of the salt sea.
Context: The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmother sent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch. She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such a dinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn of the bracket bull. Question: What was the bracket bull not able to put to sleep? Answer: the third eye
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: Why did the king believe the dog did not eat his child? Answer: The king knew the dog.
Context: When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supper herself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another, for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time. Question: How was the girl able to have supper? Answer: Her neighbor gave her corn.
Context: The young crab set out at once to call on the mortar, his father's old friend, and told him of all that had happened. The mortar now sent to fetch the bee and the chestnut (also the crab's old friends) to consult them about the matter. Question: What did the mortar, the bee, and the chestnut have in common? Answer: They all agreed to help the young crab avenge his father.
Context: The child's father spent his days at his office and his evenings at his club; her mother was a leader in society, and therefore fully engaged from morning till night and from night till morn; so that Little Miss Muffet seldom saw her parents and scarce knew them when she did see them. Mrs. Muffet would say, at times, "By the way, Nurse, how is Miss Muffet getting along?" Question: How will Miss Muffet feel about seldom seeing her parents and scarcely knowing them when she did see them? Answer: unhappy
Context: Within the memory of all the islanders no man had ever died there, and sickness was a thing unknown. They were all tired of their long, long lives, and longed to go to the happy land of contentment called Paradise of which the priests had told them centuries ago. Question: What could only be reached by dying? Answer: Paradise
Context: The old eagle, who appeared to be the head of the tribe, was so pleased with this show of spirit that he immediately appointed two tall birds, uncommonly strong in the wings, to transport Owasso to his lodge. When he espied his son-in-law still unharmed, Mishosha grew very black in the face. Question: What happened after Owasso dismissed the birds? Answer: Owasso stood ready to greet his wicked father-in-law.
Context: John Blessom once upon a time had gone down to Copenhagen to carry on a suit at law, for in those days one could not get justice in the land of Norroway; and if a man wanted his rights, there was nothing left for him to do but to travel to Copenhagen. Now it chanced that on Christmas Eve John had had speech with the gentleman in authority, and had attended to his business, and was going along the street in a low-spirited manner, for he was homesick. Question: What did John have on Christmas Eve? Answer: had speech with a gentleman in authority
Context: And Hans, as he sat upon his horse, was glad at heart, and rode off with merry cheer. And the horse began to trot, and Hans was thrown before he knew what was going to happen. Question: How did Hans feel when he sat upon the horse? Answer: glad at heart
Context: The witch hesitated, but he ordered his servants to seize her and thrust her into the stream. "That woman did not understand her business," continued Si-Men, "or else she would have been back long ago!" Question: Who did Si-Men order to go to the river-god's castle after the witch did not come back? Answer: a sorcerer
Context: He kissed her for the last time, and was off the next minute, walking as fast as he could. Her life was almost leaving her, when, just as the sun was setting, he turned up a lane, and went into a little house. Question: Who was the beautiful little boy in the little house? Answer: her eldest child
Context: After a time the foster-mother wanted to take another journey, and she forbade the girl, above all, to go into the two rooms which, as yet, she had not entered. When the foster-mother returned, and saw the moon had slipped out, she again grieved greatly, and told the girl she could keep her no longer, and that now she must go. Question: Why did the girl open the second door? Answer: She had been alone for some time and had all sorts of thoughts as to what there might be in the second room.
Context: He put it in the purse in his pocket, and carefully buttoned up the pocket. Yet when he reached the castle, and wanted to take it out, he was in the same case as the women, for he no longer had the whistle. Question: What happened because the king felt angry? Answer: He wanted to do away with Esben.
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: Who did the father meet on his way home? Answer: a very lovely lady
Context: But the Fairy Queen suddenly tightened her rein, and the grey palfrey stopped short in its wild career. So Thomas dismounted, and louted down, and rested his head on the Fairy Queen's knee; and lo, as he looked once more over the desert, everything seemed changed. Question: Why did the Queen of Fairies stop at the desert? Answer: They were at their destination.
Context: He sat there with her all day long, for they had soon agreed that they would marry, he and the king's daughter, and in this way his first day in the giant's service did not weary him at all. When he got there he thought he would try out her advice, and began to use the shovel as he had seen his father's grooms use it. Question: Why did the king's son pretend to not know of the Master Girl? Answer: He did not want the giant to know they had spoken.
Context: Then Jack rode on in front pointing out the way, and the King reached his own country in safety. He also told her how he had been obliged to pledge his word to give the creature the first thing which met him outside his castle gate, and he felt very sad at the thought that she had been the first thing to meet him. Question: How did the King's only daughter look? Answer: extremely beautiful
Context: But to his great surprise, instead of seeing it droop its neck and drift to the shore, the Red Swan flapped its wings, rose slowly, and flew off with a majestic motion toward the falling sun. He sped on, over hills and prairies, toward the west, and was only going to take one more run, and then seek a place to sleep for the night, when, suddenly, he heard noises at a distance, like the murmur of waters against the shore. Question: What did Maidwa hope to be? Answer: master of the swan
Context: The wicked woman had carefully marked the poisoned bottle, but on coming into the room she had grown nervous, and pouring out the wine hurriedly had unconsciously given the poisoned cup to her own child. The attendants rushed for the doctor, but nothing could save the child-he died within the hour in his mother's arms. Question: How did the Princess Terute feel when learned she gave the wrong cup to her son? Answer: angry
Context: On the third day he went to work again, and took along the third cart-load, lay down behind it, and pretended to be sleeping. Then a troll with seven heads came out of the hill, began to smack his lips, and eat of his provisions. Question: How many heads did the troll have? Answer: seven
Context: nan Question: What were the siblings deciding to do? Answer: how to deal with the worm
Context: Silverwhite went though the city and inquired as to the cause of all the unhappiness he saw. This news pleased Silverwhite, for he saw a fine opportunity to wealth and fame, should fortune favor him. Question: Why did Silverwhite feel pleased when he heard of the news? Answer: He saw a fine opportunity to wealth and fame.
Context: The winter was nearly passed away, when, one evening, the hunter was abroad later than usual. He arose on his couch and addressed them as follows:  "Tell me," said he, "what is it that gives you pain of mind and causes you to bemoan your presence here. He had many children, all of whom grew up to manhood; and he who had lain in the lodge, a little child, while the Jeebi dwelt there, led them in all good deeds, and health, peace, and long life were the rewards of the hunter's hospitality. Question: Why did the strangers believe that the severest test proved the couple's manners and customs? Answer: The couple had to maintain their hospitality.
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: What happened when the old man covered the flower with the cloth? Answer: The beautiful Princess Hyacinthia stood before him.
Context: West of Gingdschou, two hundred miles away, is another lake, whose god is named Tschauna, and who performs many miracles. While he was in office it chanced that in the fifth month clouds suddenly arose in the sky, piling themselves up like mountains, among which wriggled dragons and serpents; they rolled up and down between the two seas. Question: Who performed many miracles? Answer: Tschauna
Context: The old woman was ushered into the room, and after the customary bows and greetings were over, she said:  "Master, the report of your brave fight with the ogre at the Gate of Rashomon is so widely known that even your poor old nurse has heard of it. "I am very proud to think," answered the old woman, "that my master was so brave as to dare to cut off an ogre's arm. Question: What did the old woman wish? Answer: see the ogre's arm
Context: Then the sun shone so brightly, and right before her stood an angel of God in white robes; it was the same one whom she had seen that night at the church-door. She sat in the pew with the rest of the pastor's household, and when they had finished the hymn and looked up, they nodded and said, "It was right of you to come, Karen." Question: What building came to the girl? Answer: the church
Context: When seamen lose their course among wind and waves and darkling
clouds, they pray devoutly to the Queen of Heaven. When she does
this the wind departs for the North and South, and the waves grow
smooth. Question: What will happen when the seamen follow the red lantern? Answer: win safe out of all danger
Context: Once upon a time, all the people of a certain country had died, excepting two helpless children, a baby boy and a little girl. She looked around her, but seeing nobody beside her little brother, who lay smiling in his dreams, she quietly resumed her bed. Question: Who was the first to wake up? Answer: the girl
Context: Full of this idea she walked up the marble staircase, and entered the little room where her sister-in-law sat, making clothes for her children. However, as soon as she reached home, she went straight to her husband, and told him that he must get back those houses from his brother, as they would exactly suit her, and she could easily make them into a palace as fine as the king's. Question: Why did the wife get angry at her husband? Answer: He did not allow her to buy the houses.
Context: An old couple once lived in a hut under a grove of palm trees, and they had one son and one daughter. 'Your property, certainly,' answered the son, and his father nodded. Question: What did the daughter choose? Answer: his blessing
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: What happened when Hyacinthia heard the Prince was getting married? Answer: Hyacinthia cried bitterly.
Context: "It is so delightfully cold," said the Snow Man, "that it makes my whole body crackle. The sun went down, and the full moon rose, large, round, and clear, shining in the deep blue. Question: What happened after the sun went down? Answer: the full moon rose
Context: Once upon a time there lived a peasant called Ivan, and he had a wife whose name was Marie. When it had all fallen, and the sun was shining again, the children ran out into the street to play, and the old man and his wife sat at their window and gazed at them. Question: Why were Ivan and Marie unhappy? Answer: They had no children to play with.
Context: Hidesato and his host both rose to their feet and rushed to the balcony, and the warrior saw on the opposite mountain two great balls of glowing fire coming nearer and nearer. The Dragon King stood by the warrior's side trembling with fear. Question: What did the Dragon King do at the side of the glowing fire? Answer: stood by the warrior's side trembling with fear
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: Who requested Fionn to give him the haunch? Answer: Gobha Gaoithe
Context: And the man told them about Humpty Dumpty who fell downstairs and married a princess. The fir-tree stood quite astonished and thoughtful; the birds in the wood had never related anything like that. ' thought the tree, and was sure it must be true, because such a nice man had told the story. ' Question: Why did the fir-tree only know one story? Answer: The man told one story.
Context: At last she pitied him, and removed the charm, and the horns dropped down on the ground, and he would have killed her on the spot, only he was as weak as water, and his fellow-servants came in and carried him up to the big house. Well, the witch's daughter heard about it too, and she came to see the strange girl; and what did she find her doing but cutting out the pattern of a gown from brown paper; and as she cut away, the paper became the richest silk she ever saw. Question: Why didn't the witch's daughter say something dreadful to the youngest princess? Answer: The scissors kept on cutting, and the silk growing richer and richer every inch.
Context: Dschang Liang was a native of one of those states which had been destroyed by the Emperor Tsin Schi Huang. And Dschang Liang determined to do a deed for his dead king's sake, and to that end gathered followers with whom to slay Tsin Schi Huang. Question: Why did Dschang Liang gather followers with whom to slay Tsin Schi Huang? Answer: Dschang Liang was determined to do a deed for his dead king's sake.
Context: The way led over a little stream which flows into Vidostern Lake, and across the stream was a bridge, known as the Earth Bridge, and on the bridge stood two witch trolls, busy washing. As the woman came riding across the bridge, one of the witch trolls called out to the other, "Hurry, and tear her head from her shoulders!" Question: What was across the stream? Answer: a bridge
Context: And Hans, as he sat upon his horse, was glad at heart, and rode off with merry cheer. And the horse began to trot, and Hans was thrown before he knew what was going to happen. Question: Who caught the horse? Answer: a peasant
Context: Just outside the wood where she was now living lay a great corn-field. Poor little creature!'said the field-mouse, for she was a kind-hearted old thing at the bottom. ' Question: What will Thumbelina need to do when winter comes? Answer: need to find a place to stay
Context: I cannot creep into myself, however much I might wish to do so; I have to go on bearing roses. But I once saw how a rose was laid in the mistress's hymn-book, and how one of my roses found a place in the bosom of a young beautiful girl, and how another was kissed by the lips of a child in the glad joy of life. Question: How does the rose tree feel after the snail withdraws? Answer: sad
Context: Now the old lady fell ill, and it was said that she would not rise from her bed again. But when she wanted to go to the right, the shoes danced to the left, and when she wanted to dance up the room, the shoes danced down the room, down the stairs through the street, and out through the gates of the town. She danced, and was obliged to dance, far out into the dark wood. Question: How did Karen feel when the old soldier spoke to her in the woods? Answer: freightened
Context: When the days of mourning were ended, the brother bade his sister put outside the hut all that belonged to his father and his mother. And the girl was glad, and that night she was able to have supper herself, and next day another woman borrowed her pot, and then another and another, for never were known so many accidents as befell the village pots at that time. Question: What happened after the girl planted the pumpkin seed? Answer: It sprang up, and gave her many pumpkins.
Context: When he came within hail of the four large men, who were fishing there every day, he cast his ball with such force that it rolled into the ice-hole about which they were busy. Saying which he rushed upon the four brothers and thrust them at one push into the water. His ball bounded back to the surface, and, picking it up, he ran off, tossing it before him in his own sportive way. Question: Why did the men vow vengeance against the boy? Answer: The boy stole their trout.
Context: And the King took me home with him, and gave orders that I should be well cared for. "Oh, on my honour, it is some king that has lost him when he came on the island; and I will keep him, as he is trained. The Queen was now carrying the twelfth child, and when she was lying-in, the King took me with him to watch the baby. Question: What happened to the king's children when they were young? Answer: They were stolen the same night they were born.
Context: Besides, she is my father's only daughter, and he would not like to see her marry some one from afar. If you do not believe me, wait until they go walking in the garden, and then you may take a look at them without their knowing it." Question: Why didn't the youth want Kung to marry Giauna? Answer: His little Giauna was still very young.
Context: Li Dsing grew very much excited, told his wife what had happened, and both began to weep. Notscha, whom his master's magic had rendered invisible, threw the dragon to the ground with his armlet, and began to pitch into him. Question: Where was Notscha after his master did some magic? Answer: by the gate of Heaven
Context: After a while he began to feel rather tired, as indeed he had been on his legs since daybreak. In the fulness of his joy at getting the cow, he had eaten up all he had. Question: Why did Hans feel tired? Answer: he had been on his legs since daybreak
Context: Now the king thought he had taken every precaution to protect his daughter, and went off to war. They told her to arrange matters in such wise that the king's daughter and her maid might come into disrepute, without their having anything to do with it. Question: What will the old woman do with the apples? Answer: make each of the maidens a present of an apple
Context: The robber agreed with delight, feeling certain of victory, for he was famous as a fencer in his province and he did not know who his adversary was. for the rebel the sword was the wooden one of the young Prince and in vain Takeru tried to unsheathe it-it was jammed fast, not all his exerted strength could move it. Question: What happened when Takeru tried to unsheathe his sword? Answer: It was jammed fast.
Context: One can imagine what joy there was when the two reached home. When the girls looked into the basket they saw a pair of most beautiful bracelets of precious stones, dark red, and made in the shape of a ripe raspberry and with an inscription: 'To Lisa and Aina'; beside them there was a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm: on it was inscribed 'Otto, never destroy the helpless!' Question: What did the raspberry king give Otto? Answer: a diamond breast pin in the shape of a raspberry worm: on it was inscribed 'Otto, never destroy the helpless!'
Context: Little did he know in his so-called "monkey's wisdom" that this seeming unconcern was part of the young crab's plan. This, being the seventh day, is the first anniversary after his death, and my master has prepared a little festival in his father's honor, and bids you come to participate in it as you were one of his best friends. Question: Why did the young crab invite the monkey to his father's festival? Answer: He was trying to trick the monkey.
Context: In fear they for a time held their peace, but still taking note that the stranger came so often and by stealth to the lodge, they resolved at last to speak with their father. They dared not to ask their father whither she had gone, and from that day forth her name was never spoken again in the lodge. Question: How will the father feel when his sons tell him all that they have seen? Answer: jealous
Context: The old eagle, who appeared to be the head of the tribe, was so pleased with this show of spirit that he immediately appointed two tall birds, uncommonly strong in the wings, to transport Owasso to his lodge. When he espied his son-in-law still unharmed, Mishosha grew very black in the face. Question: Who appeared to be the head of the tribe? Answer: the old eagle
Context: About a week passed by: then one day the Fox came into the cave, and flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted. "I doubt that no excuse would be accepted," answered the Fox, "for they asked me to stand god-father. Question: Why couldn't the Fox send an excuse? Answer: They asked him to be the god-father.
Context: They were just about to sit down to the table when the king walked in. 'I hope you have been attended to properly,' said he, 'and that you will enjoy your dinner. Question: What would happen if the couple took off the cover? Answer: Their good fortune would come to an end.
Context: Yes," said the man, "for I have to buy the first thing that comes my way." " I don't even know whether I ought to show it to you; but I bought the first thing to be had, and that was a pup," said he. " Question: What lay in the basket? Answer: a pup
Context: The Daimio was so transported with joy that he looked as if he would go mad. He himself gave the old man a wine cup filled with the best SAKE, and rewarded him with much silver and gold and many other precious things. Question: What did the old man's new name mean? Answer: The Old Man who makes the Trees to Blossom
Context: There once lived in Sianfu an old Buddhist monk, who loved to wander in lonely places. In the course of his wanderings he once came to the Kuku-Nor, and there he saw a tree which was a thousand feet high and many cords in breadth. Question: What did the old Buddhist monk see when he came to Kuku-Nor? Answer: a tree
Context: So he went along its length, "for sooner or later I will come to the end of it," thought he. As he went along he again struck against something, and when he felt it, it was again something cold, and large and slippery. Question: Why did Per Gynt ask who was in his hand? Answer: He noticed that it moved.
Context: Well, we had everything of the best, and plenty of it; and we ate, and we drank, and we danced, and the young master, by the same token, danced with Peggy Barry, from the Bohereen--a lovely young couple they were, though they are both low enough now. Well, I thought, for all that, in myself, I'd just step to Molly Cronohan's, the fairy woman, to speak a word about the bracket heifer that was bewitched; and so, as I was crossing the stepping-stones of the ford of Ballyashenogh, and was looking up at the stars, an  blessing myself--for why? Question: Why was Daniel blessing himself? Answer: He did not drown.
Context: "She must have climbed into the cart when I left the town," he said; "but waken her, wife, and we will hear what she has to say." So the farmer's wife shook the girl by the arm, and Miss Muffet sat up in the cart and rubbed her eyes and wondered where she was. Question: What did the wife do to wake up Miss Muffet? Answer: shook her by the arm
Context: Then Cairnech was angry, and he cursed the place, and he dug a grave before the door, and he stood up upon the mound of the grave, and rang his bells and cursed the King and his house, and prophesied his downfall. She called upon her magic host of warriors, and set them round the fortress, with their spears and javelins pointed inwards towards the house, so that the King would not dare to go out amongst them. Question: Why did Cairnech bless the clans of Owen and Niall? Answer: They tried to save Murtough.
Context: Indeed, Barbaik had only to express a wish for it to be satisfied. If the wind was cold or the sun was hot and she was afraid to go out lest her complexion should be spoilt, she need only to run down to the spring close by and say softly, 'I should like my churns to be full, and my wet linen to be stretched on the hedge to dry,' and she need never give another thought to the matter. Question: What did Barbaik have to do for a wish to be satisfied? Answer: to express it
Context: Then said Culain, "Have all thy retinue come in, O Conchubar?" But as they were amusing themselves in this manner, eating and drinking, a deep growl came from without, as it were a note of warning, and after that one yet more savage; but where he sat in the champion's seat, Fergus Mac Roy struck the table with his hand and rose straightway, crying out, "It is Setanta." Question: Why did the dog attack Setanta? Answer: Setanta did not ring the gong before approaching the house.
Context: THE brother took his sister's hand and said to her,  "Since our mother died we have had no good days; our stepmother beats us every day, and if we go near her she kicks us away; we have nothing to eat but hard crusts of bread left over; the dog under the table fares better; he gets a good piece every now and then. So they went, and journeyed the whole day through fields and meadows and stony places, and if it rained the sister said,  "The skies and we are weeping together." Question: Where did they fall asleep? Answer: in a high tree
Context: 'As you have said so much you will have to say a little more,' retorted the old man, a suspicion of what she meant darting across him; and the woman, nothing loth, answered as before. No, it was over the river he rode, and across the hill and past the cottage of Miguel the vine-keeper, whose daughter, they say, is the prettiest girl in the whole country side, though she is too white for my taste,' and then the landlady paused again, and glanced up at the farmer, to see how he was taking it. Question: What did the old man's handsome son do every week? Answer: buying or selling
Context: Then off went the wolf to a shop and bought a big lump of chalk, and ate it up to make his voice soft. But the wolf had put up his black paws against the window, and the kids seeing this, cried out,  "We will not open the door; our mother has no black paws like you; you must be the wolf." Question: What did the wolf eat to make his voice soft? Answer: big lump of chalk
Context: He proceeded toward the lodge, met the female as had been foretold to him, and became an elk. Soothed by her smiles and her gracious manners, he ventured to lay his head on her lap, and in a little while he fell into a deep slumber. Question: What did the sixth giant change White Feather into? Answer: a dog
Context: In fear they for a time held their peace, but still taking note that the stranger came so often and by stealth to the lodge, they resolved at last to speak with their father. They dared not to ask their father whither she had gone, and from that day forth her name was never spoken again in the lodge. Question: Why did the boys dare not to ask their father whither their mother had gone? Answer: They knew he was angry.
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: How did the wife feel when she saw that her child was part-hedgehog? Answer: frightened
Context: Poor Thomas, meanwhile, stood far away at the other end of the Hall, feeling very lonely, yet fascinated by the extraordinary scene on which he was gazing. For, although all the fine Ladies, and Courtiers, and Knights were dancing in one part of the Hall, there were huntsmen coming and going in another part, carrying in great antlered deer, which apparently they had killed in the chase, and throwing them down in heaps on the floor. Question: What did Thomas do while he was in the castle? Answer: stood and gazed, and gazed, never speaking a word to anybody
Context: I have lost my rod and basket; but it does not much matter, for I am sure I should never have dared to go fishing again!" SIR ISAAC NEWTON wore his black and gold waistcoat,  AND Mr. Alderman Ptolemy Tortoise brought a salad with him in a string bag. Question: What did they have instead of a nice dish of minnows? Answer: a roasted rasshopper with lady-bird sauce
Context: Under these circumstances the youth was glad to have him for a comrade, and they resumed their journey, the man as a rule going in advance and pointing out the way. After they had wandered long through various lands, over hills and over heaths, they suddenly stood before a wall of rock. Question: Who met the youth and his comrade inside the hill? Answer: a witch
Context: The
grand-children, who were away, busy with their duties, all asked for
leave and returned home when they heard that their ancestor had
returned. The scholar himself still looked like a youth of twenty years, so that
all the young people in the circle looked around and laughed. Question: Why did all the young people in the circle looked around and laughed? Answer: The scholar himself still looked like a youth of twenty years
Context: So there was no more fighting that day, and Tom was invited to dine with the royal family. Next day Redhead told Tom of a wolf, the size of a yearling heifer, that used to be serenading (sauntering) about the walls, and eating people and cattle; and said what a pleasure it would give the King to have it killed. " But Tom kept playing, and the outsiders kept shouting and dancing, and the wolf kept dancing and roaring with the pain his legs were giving him: and all the time he had his eyes on Redhead, who was shut out along with the rest. Question: What will the Redhead send to show Tom where the wolf lives? Answer: a jackeen
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: Why didn't the girl want to use her other arm? Answer: She only had one hand.
Context: When it was morning, and the children had got up, the Tin-soldier was put in the window; and whether it was the wind or the little black imp, I don't know, but all at once the window flew open and out fell the little Tin-soldier, head over heels, from the third-storey window! they must have found him; but he did not think it fitting for him to cry out, because he had on his uniform. Question: Why did the Tin-soldier believe it was not fitting for him to cry out? Answer: He had on his uniform.
Context: It chanced, one dark December night, that there was a dreadful storm at sea, and in the morning the beach was all strewn with wreckage. So as soon as it was daylight the two friends went down to the shore to see if they could find anything to eat. Question: What did the Wolf want to do after they found the butter? Answer: roll it up to the cave
Context: You can imagine the feelings of the poor crab after waiting patiently, for so long as he had done, for the tree to grow and the fruit to ripen, when he saw the monkey devouring all the good persimmons. Again and again, as fast as he could pick them, the monkey pulled off the hard persimmons and threw them at the defenseless crab till he dropped dead, covered with wounds all over his body. Question: What did the crab do because he was so disappointed? Answer: ran round and round the tree calling to the monkey to remember his promise
Context: But the youth preferred to go to the mother in the corner, and try to win her daughter. His mother did not think this such a bad idea, for now the youth was handsomely dressed, and made a good showing. Question: What did the youth need to do to not dirty his shoes? Answer: jump over a puddle to a clump of grass
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: How was Murmur Goose-Egg able to pick up such large stones? Answer: He was strong.
Context: "Hold a minute," interposed the kettle, as Maidwa was about to dip in his ladle. As soon as Maidwa had partaken of food and laid aside his leggings and moccasins, the old magician commenced telling him how he had lost his scalp, the insults it was receiving, the pain he suffered thereby, his wishes to regain it, the many unsuccessful attempts that had already been made, and the numbers and power of those who retained it. Question: Who made the rustling noise Maidwa heard? Answer: the Red Swan
Context: She directed him to put in his girdle a blade of scented sword-grass, and to proceed the next morning to the banks of the lake, which was no other than that over which the Red Head reigned. These offers he was to refuse, and to say that he had come a great distance to be the wife of the Red Head, and that if the chief could not seek her for himself, she would return to her village. Question: What would happen if Red Head did not seek Strong Desire? Answer: She would return to her village.
Context: Sentaro had often heard the tale of the Chinese King named Shin-no-Shiko. Ah-if only he could find the "Elixir of Life," he would be happy. Question: Why was Shin-no-Shiko miserable? Answer: He knew that one day he must die and leave it all.
Context: Once upon a time there were three little kittens, and their names were Mittens, Tom Kitten, and Moppet. They had dear little fur coats of their own; and they tumbled about the doorstep and played in the dust. Question: How many kittens were there? Answer: three
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: What happened after Setanta interrupted the young nobles' game? Answer: The boys came together into a group and held a council.
Context: Once upon a time there were three brothers who had lost their parents, and since the latter had left their sons nothing upon which to live, they had to wander out into the world, and seek their fortune. The two older brothers prepared for the journey as well as they were able; but the youngest, whom they called "Mike by the Stove," because he was always sitting behind the stove whittling, they did not want to take with them. Question: What happened because the brothers were jealous of Mike by the Stove? Answer: His brothers said he had declared he could obtain the most beautiful princess in twelve kingdoms for the king.
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: What happened after the man got tired? Answer: He began to kill everyone who came near him.
Context: 'It is hardly worth doing that,' answered Jack; 'for I picked up the pieces and ate them myself.' The next morning his brothers went home, and bought a beautiful house, where they lived with their mother like great lords. Question: Where did Jack go after being kicked out? Answer: the woods
Context: Then he gave her someone for a guide, who walked near her and said nothing, but he brought her in two hours to her house. When the day broke, a voice called from the iron stove, 'It seems to me that it is day outside.' Question: What did the king and princess determine after they consulted together? Answer: determined that the miller's daughter should take her place
Context: 'This time you've made a mistake,' thought Prince Milan, and going to his room he sat down at the window. ' You will recognise me by a tiny fly I shall have on my left cheek, but be careful for you might easily make a mistake.' Question: How did the Prince feel when Hyacinthia revealed it was not easy to distinguish her from her sisters? Answer: worried
Context: At the time when the animals reigned in the earth, they had killed all the people but a girl and her little brother. You must hide yourself, and you will soon see the snow-birds come and pick the worms out of the logs which I have piled up. Question: What did the girl do daily? Answer: get wood for the lodge-fire
Context: On the grave, close by the churchyard wall, they planted a rose-tree; it was soon full of roses, and the nightingale sat among the flowers, and sang over the grave. From the organ in the church sounded the music and the words of the beautiful psalms, which were written in the old book under the head of the dead one. Question: What did they plant near the churchyard wall? Answer: a rose tree
Context: "Well, whether you be crooked or straight, you will have to let me pass," said Per Gynt. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: What happened because it was dark inside as it was outside? Answer: He stumbled and felt his way along the walls.
Context: The tender leaves were bursting out of their sheaths, and covering all the trees with a fresh soft mantle of green; and amongst the carpet of moss under the young man's feet, yellow primroses and starry anemones were turning up their faces to the morning sky. The little birds were singing like to burst their throats, and hundreds of insects were flying backwards and forwards in the sunshine; while down by the burnside the bright-eyed water-rats were poking their noses out of their holes, as if they knew that summer had come, and wanted to have a share in all that was going on. Question: What did Thomas do to watch the living things around him? Answer: threw himself down at the root of a tree
Context: But in summer time she was obliged to go barefooted because she was poor, and in winter she had to wear large wooden shoes, so that her little instep grew quite red. Just then a large old carriage came by, and in it sat an old lady; she looked at the little girl, and taking pity on her, said to the clergyman, "Look here, if you will give me the little girl, I will take care of her." Question: Who was in the carriage? Answer: an old lady
Context: Then she went everywhere throughout the house, and took lighted brands and burning torches, and scattered them in every part of the dwelling. And she caused a great wind to spring up, and it came soughing through the house from the north-west; and the King said, "This is the sigh of the winter night." Question: Why did Sheen tell the king it was all a dream? Answer: She did not want him to try to stop her.
Context: JEMIMA PUDDLE-DUCK was a simpleton: not even the mention of sage and onions made her suspicious. AND she waddled into the kitchen, and got two onions out of a basket. Question: What did collie trot down the village to look for? Answer: two fox-hound puppies
Context: He thought how foolish it was to waste more time in looking for the hermits in this way. So he decided to go at once to the shrine of Jofuku, who is worshiped as the patron god of the hermits in the south of Japan. Question: How many days did Sentaro pray at the shrine? Answer: seven days
Context: "If you will listen to me at last, now you are quiet," said Amergin, "I am able to bring up a child like a king. They praise my good luck, my age, my speaking, my name, my courage, and my race. Question: Who did Sencha say should settle who would raise the child? Answer: Morann the judge
Context: We cannot shelter you, and have to leave the house ourselves, because the place is alive with trolls every Christmas Eve!" Then the bear lay down behind the hearth, Per took out his awl, his pitch and his wire, and set out to make a single large shoe out of the pig's skin. Question: Why can the man not shelter Per Gynt? Answer: The place is alive with trolls every Christmas Eve.
Context: During the first half of the eighteenth century, several large estates in Schonen were the property of the family of Barnekow. A widow at twenty-nine, she herself took over the management of her large properties. Question: What type of person was Margaret Barnekow? Answer: a hard worker
Context: Once Tsin Schi Huang was making a progress through the country. When he came to the plain of Bo Lang, Dschang Liang armed his people with iron maces in order to kill him. Question: How did Tsin Schi Huang feel after Dschang Liang tried to kill him? Answer: angry
Context: The King put the beautiful maiden on his horse, and carried her to his castle, where the wedding was held with great pomp; so she became lady Queen, and they lived together happily for a long while; the fawn was well tended and cherished, and he gambolled about the castle garden. Now the wicked stepmother, whose fault it was that the children were driven out into the world, never dreamed but that the sister had been eaten up by wild beasts in the forest, and that the brother, in the likeness of a fawn, had been slain by the hunters. Question: How did the step-mother feel when she found out the sister and brother were living in the castle? Answer: jealous
Context: They set out, and arriving at a good ground for their sport, they spent the day in hunting. He slyly reached down a pair of moccasins and leggings with a stick, and thinking they were no other than those of Owasso's, he dropped them into the flames. Question: What did the magician do instead of rekindle the fire? Answer: dropped a pair of moccasins and leggings into the flames
Context: I hear horses' hoofs behind us,' said Hyacinthia to the Prince. The Magician's servants hurried after the fresh tracks, but when they came to the bridge, they stood, not knowing which road to take, as the footprints stopped suddenly, and there were three paths for them to choose from. Question: What did Hyacinthia turn the Prince into? Answer: an iron bridge
Context: In this way the years went on, but the crops were not so good as they had been, and the old man gave orders that some fine houses he was building in the city should be left unfinished, for it would take all the savings to complete them. If there had been only himself, he would have managed to get on somehow, but he could not bear to watch his children becoming weaker day by day, and swallowing his pride, at length he crossed the mountains to his old home where his brother was living. Question: Why did the old man give orders to leave some houses to be left unfinished? Answer: It would take all the savings to complete them.
Context: Then the old troll-woman grew so angry that she burst in two. The princess with the long nose and the rest of the troll-pack probably burst in two as well, for I never heard anything more of them. Question: What happened because the troll-women grew angry? Answer: She burst into two
Context: When the man had confirmed this, the giant wanted to know whether Karin was still living in Stommen. And when they told him that she was, he gave them a girdle, and with it the message that Karin was to wear it in remembrance of him. Question: What did the giant give the men? Answer: a girdle, and with it the message that Karin was to wear it in remembrance of him
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. It wasn't long till the gate was thrune open, and the Ould Boy received Tom with bows and scrapes, and axed his business. " Question: What happened after Tom knocked at the gates? Answer: a hundred little imps popped their heads out through the bars, and axed him what he wanted
Context: I will see whether I can get them back for you," said his comrade, and went down into the stable. When she came, she anointed the goat with a salve she carried in a great horn, and cried out: "Up, up! Question: Where did the princess tell the goat to take her? Answer: to her dearest who waits for her in the hill
Context: Depend on me, and, maybe, I'll bring you out of this scrape better than ever you could bring yourself." Indeed, to tell the truth, she was supposed to be a fairy herself. Now, it so happened that Oonagh had a sister named Granua living opposite to them, on the very top of Cullamore, which I have mentioned already. Question: How will Granua feel when she sees Far Rua? Answer: terrified
Context: Now, when it was midnight, and every one was asleep, the nurse, who was sitting by the cradle in the nursery and watching there alone, saw the door open, and the true Queen come in. Then she went in perfect silence out at the door, and the nurse next morning asked the watchmen if any one had entered the castle during the night, but they said they had seen no one. Question: What did the Queen do to the fawn when she went outside to see him? Answer: stroked his back
Context: After a few days had passed they had to accompany the Prince of the Dragon Cave to the birthday festival of the King of the Wu River. Now Mother Hia went every day to the castle of the god of the Wu River. Question: Why didn't Aduan see Rose of Evening for months? Answer: The King had kept back Rose of Evening and one of the nightingale dancers to teach the girls in his castle.
Context: 'Well, honest man,' says the King, 'and how is it you make your money so easy?' What would you say,' says he, 'if I made your old goose as good as new?' The minute the saint set his eyes on the goose, 'I'll do the job for you,' says he, 'King O'Toole!' Now,' says he, 'this is the bargain I'll make with you, King O'Toole: will you give me all the ground the goose flies over, the first offer, after I make her as good as new?' Question: Why did the king bet so much on Saint Kavin making his goose as good as new? Answer: He loved his goose.
Context: So the youth served out his three years, and did better than they had expected him to do. Now when his master was to go to do his buying, he set out as early as possible in the morning. " Question: Why did the master go so early in the morning? Answer: He did not want to buy something expensive.
Context: The next day, when the lad went out herding the cows, the stepmother sent the third daughter out after him, and threatened her not to fall asleep, but to have a good watch. She ran home then, and said to her mother that there wasn't such a dinner in the world as was being set before the boy out of the horn of the bracket bull. Question: How did the daughter look? Answer: This daughter had three eyes, for she had an eye in the back of her head.
Context: Now though the monkey is always very fond of persimmon fruit, he had no use for the seed he had just found. He, therefore, in his greedy nature, felt very envious of the crab's nice dumpling, and he proposed an exchange. Question: How did the monkey feel when the crab found the dumpling? Answer: envious
Context: Whenever guests came, his wife laid the table for the old folk in the bake-house, and on each occasion so much money was left lying there, that before long they did not know what to do with it all. Once he wanted to go to town, and since it was fall, and the ground already frozen, the horse had first to be shod. Question: What did the dragoon's wife do because he could not get the horse-shoe to fit? Answer: go into the smithy herself and shoe the horse
Context: He knew very well that he had enough inside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very good opinion of his own value. A large doll, still handsome, though rather old, for her neck had been mended, lay inside one of the drawers which was partly open. Question: How did the pig feel about himself Answer: proud
Context: He did think that first he ought to speak to his daughter about it. Then the man went back to the bear again, and they both agreed that the white bear should return again the following Thursday and get his answer. Question: How did the man feel about becoming rich? Answer: excited
Context: The Dragon King did as he was bid, and the warrior noticed that he had only three arrows left in his quiver. When the Dragon King saw that even this brave warrior's arrows were powerless to kill the centipede, he lost heart and began to tremble with fear. Question: Why did Hidesato not launch another arrow? Answer: only one arrow left
Context: Wherever Redhead went the wolf followed, and kept one eye on him and the other on Tom, to see if he would give him leave to eat him. When the princess seen that there was no fear of anyone being kilt she was so divarted by the stew that Redhead was in that she gave another great laugh; and well become Tom, out he cried, "King of Dublin, I have two quarters of your daughter." " No, no," says the princess, "I'd rather never be your wife than see you in that danger." Question: What did Tom do after he told the wolf to go back to the mountains? Answer: He said no more, but spit in his fist, and gave a flourish of his club.
Context: "Because it has taken root in your body," was the shepherd's answer. cried Stompe Pilt, "are you still not angry enough for us to come to blows?" Question: How did the giant feel when the shepherd shot him with an arrow? Answer: confused
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: Who came up to the old man for a gossip? Answer: the landlady
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: How did people feel when they learned Setanta had a passion for arms and the martial life? Answer: surprised
Context: "I will give you," said the King, "a hundred head of every herd of cattle that is within my kingdom, and a hundred drinking horns, and a hundred cups, and a hundred rings of gold, and a feast every other night in the summer palace of Cletty. "What is thy name," said Murtough, "that it may not come upon my lips to utter it?" Question: Why did people call the witch "Sheen?" Answer: for 'Storm'
Context: In that country the people are fond of the roots of bulrushes, which they think as good as onions, and one of the young men said that they had better collect some of the roots and carry them back to the camp. Let them come and get the roots for themselves; but we will fish for eels and anything else we can get.' Question: How does the story describe of the people? Answer: They were fond of the root sof bulrushes which they think as good as onions.
Context: One day Kung's friend came to him in a state of great excitement and said: "The owner of this house is coming back, and my father now wishes to return to Shensi. Kung wished to accompany them, but his friend advised him to return to his own home. Question: What Kung do when he found out the youth was leaving? Answer: wished to accompany them
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Where did the old woman live? Answer: down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy
Context: An old couple once lived in a hut under a grove of palm trees, and they had one son and one daughter. 'Your property, certainly,' answered the son, and his father nodded. Question: Who had one son and one daughter? Answer: an old couple
Context: 'Yes, when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully,' said Lisa. Question: What did Lisa and Aina see? Answer: a worm
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: How did the girl feel after she could not find the baby? Answer: scared
Context: 'As you have said so much you will have to say a little more,' retorted the old man, a suspicion of what she meant darting across him; and the woman, nothing loth, answered as before. No, it was over the river he rode, and across the hill and past the cottage of Miguel the vine-keeper, whose daughter, they say, is the prettiest girl in the whole country side, though she is too white for my taste,' and then the landlady paused again, and glanced up at the farmer, to see how he was taking it. Question: What did the son and Miguel's daughter do one fine morning? Answer: went to the little church on top of the hill, and were married
Context: But what were deadly poisons in other lands were without effect in this strange place. People who swallowed them with the hope of dying only found that in a short time they felt better in health instead of worse. For his part he wished to live thousands of years and to enjoy life. Question: How was Sentaro the only happy man on the island? Answer: Everyone else wanted to die.
Context: THERE was once a peasant who owned a faithful dog called Sultan, now grown so old that he had lost all his teeth, and could lay hold of nothing. One day the man was standing at the door of his house with his wife, and he said,  "I shall kill old Sultan to-morrow; he is of no good any longer." Question: How does the story describe Sultan? Answer: grown so old that he had lost all his teeth and could lay hold of nothing
Context: Jack took a horn, a shovel, a pickaxe, his armor, and a dark lantern, and one winter's evening he went to the mount. He then blew his horn so loudly that the giant awoke and came out of his den crying out: "You saucy villain! Question: Why did Jack blow the horn? Answer: to wake up the giant and have him come out of the den
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: How will the guards feel when Tom attacks them? Answer: scared
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. 'There's nothing to be done, and after all I suppose one can only die once.' Question: Why was the Prince sad? Answer: He was certain he would lose his head.
Context: There was a witch woman in that country whose name was "Sigh, Sough, Storm, Rough Wind, Winter Night, Cry, Wail, and Groan." She knew, too, that with the coming of the new faith trouble would come upon the fairy folk, and their power and their great majesty would depart from them, and men would call them demons, and would drive them out with psalm-singing and with the saying of prayers, and with the sound of little tinkling bells. Question: What would men call the fairy folk? Answer: demons
Context: Then the faithful old servant Katoda came out, and bowing himself to the ground before his master. He poured out the long tale of wrong, telling him all that had happened, and how it was that he found his daughter in such a wild and desolate spot with only two old servants to take care of her. Question: What happened because the step-mother heard what had happened? Answer: She fled from the house and returned in disgrace to her father's roof and nothing more was heard of her.
Context: The little Prince was very much frightened at the swallow, for in comparison with one so tiny as himself he seemed a giant. And out of each flower came a lady and gentleman, each so tiny and pretty that it was a pleasure to see them. Question: What did the Little Prince do when he saw Thumbelina? Answer: took his golden crown from off his head and put it on hers, asking her her name, and if she would be his wife
Context: He acquired all sorts of magic powers by means of which he extended his life-span. He agreed to give him a hundred pieces of copper daily; yet he did not pay him, and finally he owed him seven million, two hundred thousand pieces of copper. Question: How did Laotsze extend his life-span? Answer: acquired all sorts of magic powers
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: Who did the Fairy love with all of her heart? Answer: Princess Sylvia
Context: Shiro's master thought this a strange request, because he knew quite well that not only did his neighbor not love his pet dog. He then took his spade and hastened to his own field, forcing the unwilling Shiro to follow him. Question: How did the old man feel about his neighbors request? Answer: confused
Context: He then drew from his sack a curiously-wrought antique pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by an admixture of certain dried leaves, he handed it to his guest. "I shake my locks," retorted the old man, "and snow covers the land. Question: What did the old man say happened to the ground when he walked? Answer: The ground became as hard as flint.
Context: Long, long ago, there lived an old farmer and his wife who had made their home in the mountains, far from any town. So he lay in wait day after day and night after night, with a big club, hoping to catch the badger, but all in vain. Question: Who was the couple's only neighbor? Answer: a bad and malicious badger
Context: he exclaimed, with a look of sorrow on his wrinkled face, "hast thou come, as thy companion came, to pay thy toll of years to the Elfin King? But I set out over the enchanted moor, and the Elfin King appeared in the guise of a beauteous Knight, and he looked so brave, and noble, and generous that I followed him hither, and drank of his heather ale, and now I am doomed to bide here till seven long years be spent. Question: Why did the little grizzled Goblin try to warn Earl St. Clair? Answer: The grizzled goblin did not want him to have the same faith as his companion.
Context: After this he lived for many a long year in his Castle of Ercildoune, and the fame of his poetry and of his prophecies spread all over the country, so that people named him True Thomas, and Thomas the Rhymer. He foretold the Battle of Bannockburn in these words:      "The Burn of Breid     Shall rin fou reid,"  which came to pass on that terrible day when the waters of the little Bannockburn were reddened by the blood of the defeated English. Question: What prophecies did Thomas foretell? Answer: the Battle of Bannockburn
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. The touch of his hands appeared to work like magic, for no sooner had he finished than the wound seemed to deaden and die, leaving only the scar. Question: What did the seal catcher do when the stranger asked him to heal his father? Answer: went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could.
Context: "I wish I had some wool," said the boy, "for I need a new coat very badly, and mamma is so poor she cannot buy me one." "That is too bad," replied the Black Sheep; "but I shall have more wool by and by, and then I will give you a bagful to make a new coat from." Question: What happened because mamma is so poor? Answer: She cannot buy the boy a new coat.
Context: 'Comfort yourself,' said the stranger kindly; 'they shall neither send your husband to prison nor sell your goods. I think I had better go to court, and enter into the service of the king.' Question: What happened after Jose paid the woman's debts? Answer: He found that only three gold pieces were left.
Context: The monkey slipped out of the house and ran as quickly as he could to the forest to find the boar. The boar was at home, and the monkey began his tale of woe at once. Question: What did the monkey do as soon as he saw the boar? Answer: began his tale of woe at once
Context: As he retraced his steps, awesome and terrible were the sounds that he heard around him. And it carried him safely through all the dangers; and just as the sound of the Matin Bell was dying away in the morning air he stepped on to solid ground once more, and flung the enchanted goblet from him. Question: What did Earl St. Clair hear after he retraced his steps? Answer: shrieks from the ravens, screams of the Goblins, and the deep breaking of the awful Monster
Context: When the man opened the door, everything within was so beautiful that Isaac could not get over his admiration. Their father must have quieted them, for they were very friendly and amiable, and told Isaac he must use his guest-right, and sit down and drink with them; for Isaac had risen to leave the table, saying he had satisfied his hunger. Question: How did Isaac feel when the three sons came? Answer: scared
Context: Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax and pulled it up by the roots, which was very painful. All the flax, even to the last stalk, was used in making this one piece. Question: how much of the flax was used to make one piece of linen? Answer: all of it
Context: Nobody seemed to want them, or, if they did, the young men declared that they were not able to undertake all that the farmers or millers or woodcutters required of them. The youngest brother, who was wiser, would gladly have done some of the work that the others refused, but he was small and slight, and no one thought of offering him any. Question: Why did no one think to offer the youngest brother any work? Answer: He was small and slight.
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who lived in the little back room. His father, it is true, was of the opinion that there might be other work that would suit him better, for whoever was to herd hares would have to be quick and spry, and not a sleepy-head. Question: Who was the youngest son? Answer: Esben
Context: Moreover, in his time the Ancient Peoples of the Fairy Tribes of Erin were scattered and destroyed, the folk of the underworld and of my fatherland; and to avenge the wrong and loss he wrought on them I slew the man I loved. And they digged a grave lengthways across the foot of the wide grave of Murtough and his spouse, and there they laid the maiden who had wrought them woe. Question: How did Sheen poison the king? Answer: She made for him magic drink and food which took his strength away.
Context: It was the rainy season at Nara, and floods were reported every day as doing damage in the neighborhood. From that time she was called Chinjo-hime, or the Lieutenant-General Princess, and respected and loved by all. Question: How did the ceasing of the water roar allow the Emperor to recover in his health? Answer: He could now sleep soundly.
Context: The next morning he went to the spring by the cross-road and found it red with blood. Lillwacker then inquired how it had all come about, and then went his way, reaching the royal castle in which Silverwhite dwelt with his beautiful queen in the evening. Question: How did Lillwacker know that Silverwhite was dead? Answer: He went the spring by the cross-road and found it red with blood.
Context: The tiny Thumbelina woke up very early in the morning, and when she saw where she was she began to cry bitterly; for on every side of the great green leaf was water, and she could not get to the land. The old toad was down under the marsh, decorating her room with rushes and yellow marigold leaves, to make it very grand for her new daughter-in-law; then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf where Thumbelina lay. Question: How will Thumbelina escape from the old toad and her son? Answer: The fish will help her escape from the toads.
Context: "Tell me what it is," said the seal catcher, "and I will do it, if it lies within my power." "I have no skill in the art of healing," said the seal catcher, astonished at the forbearance of these strange creatures, whom he had so unwittingly wronged; "but I will bind up the wound to the best of my power, and I am only sorry that it was my hands that caused it." Question: Why did the stranger bring the seal catcher to his father? Answer: The stranger wanted the seal catcher to heal his father.
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. The touch of his hands appeared to work like magic, for no sooner had he finished than the wound seemed to deaden and die, leaving only the scar. Question: What did the seals do after the old seal was healed? Answer: laughed, and they talked, and they embraced each other in their own strange way, crowding round their comrade. They rubbed their noses against his
Context: Momotaro landed, and with the hope of finding some way of entrance, walked up the path towards the top, followed by the monkey and the dog. We were carried away from our homes to this island, and though we are the daughters of Daimios (Lords), we are obliged to be his servants, and one day he will kill us"--and the maidens held up the blood-stained clothes--"and eat us, and there is no one to help us!" Question: What were the two beautiful damsels doing? Answer: washing clothes in a stream
Context: "But," said Finn, "how is it that thy young warriors, valiant and swift, do not repel him, or kill him?" Our hosts encompass Tara on all sides, keeping watch and ward when the fatal night comes. Now Finn was alone in the banqueting chamber after the rest had gone out, and he washed his face and his hands in pure water, and he took from the bag that was at his girdle the instruments of divination and magic, which had been his father's, and what use he made of them is not known; but ere long a man stood before him, holding a spear in one hand and a blue mantle in the other. Question: Why did the soldiers fill their ears with wax and wool? Answer: They did not want to hear the fairy music.
Context: He crawled to the pond pointed out to him, bathed well in it. He went hopping joyfully towards the young man who had so helped him, and kneeling down at his feet, said:  "I cannot express my thanks for all you have done for me! Question: What were Okuni-nushi-no-Mikoto's brothers on their way to do? Answer: find Yakami and ask her to marry one of them
Context: At the sound of his voice they gave a cry and ran towards him, and poured out questions as to what had happened, and why he looked like that. Question: Why didn't the prince answer any of his parents' questions? Answer: He wanted to find his wife.
Context: "Don't stand there and laugh in such a stupid way," said the woman, "but come and help a poor, feeble old woman. He found it all very amusing, and said that if she had already been standing there a hundred years, then she could probably hold out for another hundred years or more. Question: What did Peter do when he heard the woman ask for help? Answer: laughed
Context: He fell to and partook heartily of the meal; and, by so doing, he was overcome, and lost his right of revenge. Onwee Bahmondang watched his opportunity, and as soon as he saw that the false brother's sleep was sound, he resumed his youthful form, and sent off the two fairy daughters and the old garden; and drawing the magic-ball from his back, which turned out to be a great war-club, he fetched the slumbering brother a mighty blow, which sent him away too; and thus did Onwee Bahmondang vindicate his title as the Wearer of the Ball. Question: What did Onwee do when the brother fell asleep? Answer: fetched the slumbering brother a mighty blow
Context: When the King saw that vision, he rose screaming from his sleep, and donned his arms; and he made one plunge forward seeking for the magic hosts, but he found no man to answer him. The damsel went forth from the house, and Murtough made to follow her, but as he turned the flames leaped out, and all between him and the door was one vast sheet of flame. Question: What happened after the king donned his arms? Answer: He made one plunge forward seeking for the magic hosts.
Context: Now the Afghans began to look a little uncomfortable, but Moti seemed so determined to keep the horse that they resolved to appeal to the law, so they went off and laid a complaint before the king that Moti had stolen one of their horses and would not give it up nor pay for it. But Moti declared that he had got the animal in exchange for fifty pieces of silver, whilst the horse merchants vowed that the money they had on them was what they had received for the sale of other horses; and in one way and another the dispute got so confusing that the king (who really thought that Moti had stolen the horse) said at last, 'Well, I tell you what I will do. Question: What did the king do after he came back from the back of the Court? Answer: came back clasping something closely wrapped up in a cloth under his robe, slipped it into the little box, locked the box, and set it up where all might see
Context: "Buz," said the fly; "there, I'm not going to make a long speech; but I wish to say something about hares. I have really overtaken more than one hare, when I have been seated on the engine in front of a railway train. Question: What was the first thing the fly said? Answer: buz
Context: In the evening her husband returned from hunting a long way off, and found his wife in tears. 'Well, never mind now--go to sleep,' said he, 'and to-morrow I will go and pull up the pumpkin tree, and that will punish her for treating you so badly.' Question: What did the brother plan to do after his sister did not give his wife more pumpkins? Answer: pull up the pumpkin tree
Context: He was thankful to the Great Spirit for this act of goodness, and in his heart he felt assured that in time the boy would show great virtue, and in some way avenge him on the wicked Weendigo who had destroyed the companion of his lodge. The hunter grew at ease in his spirit, and gave all of the time he could spare from the chase to the society of the two children; but, what affected him the most, both of his sons, although they were well-formed and beautiful, grew no more in stature, but remained children still. Question: How did the hutner feel towards the Great Spirit? Answer: thankful
Context: The Prince of the Dragon Cave was especially desirous of testing Aduan. So Aduan danced alone, and he danced with joy or defiance according to the music. Question: Why did Aduan hasten to the western courtyard? Answer: He wanted to meet Rose of Evening.
Context: Another giant, called Blunderbore, vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever he should have him in his power. This giant kept an enchanted castle in the midst of a lonely wood; and some time after the death of Cormoran Jack was passing through a wood, and being weary, sat down and went to sleep. Question: What is the name of the another giant? Answer: Blunderbore
Context: He, to his horror, recognised his own hunting knife with which he had struck the seal in the morning, and which had been carried off by the wounded animal. They implored him not to put himself about, for no harm would befall him, and they would love him all their lives long if he would only do what they asked him. Question: What did the stranger give to the seal catcher? Answer: his hunting-knife
Context: I went up to her, and I thought she would turn me back to my own shape, and she struck me with the rod and made of me an old white horse. When a man came near me in the morning, I would follow him till I broke his bones. When she had enough of my killing the fowl, she came out into the garden, for she knew I was in the badger's hole. Question: Why did the man go up to the woman? Answer: He thought she would turn him back to his own shape.
Context: After exchanging one or two heavy blows with his foe Woof's courage returned, and he determined to dishearten his adversary by bluster. He ruffled his feathers as a bird does, till he appeared to be twice his actual size, and then he strode forward and struck Woof so powerful a blow that his skull crackled like an egg-shell and he fell prone upon the ground. Question: What happened to the great Woof when the King of the Polar Bears fought him? Answer: His skull crackled like an egg-shell and he fell prone upon the ground.
Context: On a certain afternoon the sun was falling in the West, and in the midst of the ruddy silence a solitary lodge stood on the banks of a remote lake. They stood looking on or moved about the lodge with whispered steps, awaiting the departure of the spirit. Question: What did the poor family await for? Answer: the departure of the spirit
Context: A long, long while ago, before ever the White Men were seen in Senna, there lived a man called Gopani-Kufa. An enormous python had caught an antelope and coiled itself around it. Question: How did the antelope feel while pinning the python's neck to a tree? Answer: in despair
Context: The hunter, on entering, found his son sitting by the fire, very quiet and unconcerned, although he saw that all the articles of the lodge were lying thrown about in all directions. The hunter was not satisfied until his son had shown him how he played with the blanket, which he did so adroitly as to set his father laughing, and at last drive him out of the lodge with the great clouds of ashes that he raised. Question: Why was the lodge in such confusion? Answer: The boy chased and dragged his blanket around the lodge.
Context: The man jumped out of bed in a great hurry, and began to look about him. 'Silly that you are, they are on your back, of course,' answered the woman. Question: How did the third woman trick her husband to believe the most impossible thing? Answer: She convinced her husband that he already wore clothes for the funeral.
Context: Starkad, the hero of the legends, the bravest warrior in the army of the North, had fallen into disgrace with the king because of a certain princess, so he wandered up into Norland, and settled down at Rude in Tuna, where he was known as the Thrall of the Alders or the Red Fellow. Question: Who was the hero of the legends and the bravest warrior in the army of the North? Answer: Starkad
Context: "But, old fellow," said he, "you must wink at my making off by chance with a fat sheep of your master's; perhaps one will escape some fine day." "Don't reckon on that," answered the dog; "I cannot consent to it; I must remain true to my master." Question: How did the master know about the wolf's intention of carrying off the sheep? Answer: The master had been warned by the faithful Sultan of the owlf's intention.
Context: The great bear had never seen such creatures before, and therefore advanced toward the boat, sniffing the strange scent with aroused curiosity and wondering whether he might take them for friends or foes, food or carrion. When the king came near the water's edge a man stood up in the boat and with a queer instrument made a loud "bang!" Question: What did the men do to the King of the Polar Bears? Answer: shot at him
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: What did Sentaro do when he fell in the water? Answer: cried out loudly to Jofuku to save him
Context: He put it in the purse in his pocket, and carefully buttoned up the pocket. Yet when he reached the castle, and wanted to take it out, he was in the same case as the women, for he no longer had the whistle. Question: Why did the king feel angry and furious? Answer: He had made a fool of them all
Context: There was a trembling in the poor creature's hand, and he was not able to cut a piece at all off the bull, after his feeding him for so long, and after the kindness he had got from him. "I'm as good a herd as ever you saw, but I'll not tell you a lie--I can do nothing but herding; but, indeed, I'll do that as well as any man that ever you saw." Question: Why did the gentleman want the son? Answer: The son could help him rid the giants.
Context: Instantly jumping up and rubbing his eyes, Mishosha cried out:  "Son-in-law, your moccasins are burning. After a while they quite stiffened under him, his body became hard, and the hair bristled in the cold wind, so that he looked to Owasso--who turned away from him, leaving the wicked old magician alone to ponder upon his past life. Question: Why did Mishosha look like an old sycamore-tree? Answer: His body became hard, and the hair bristled in the cold wind.
Context: They had not very far to go, but Moti's little pony, weighted with a heavy man and two big rocks, soon began to lag behind the cavalry, and would have lagged behind the infantry too, only they were not very anxious to be too early in the fight, and hung back so as to give Moti plenty of time. The young man jogged along more and more slowly for some time, until at last, getting impatient at the slowness of the pony, he gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the pony completely lost his temper and bolted. Question: Why did the pony completely lose its temper and bolted? Answer: He gave him such a tremendous thwack with his staff,
Context: Once there was a gentleman who married, for his second wife, the proudest and most haughty woman that was ever seen. She had, by a former husband, two daughters of her own humor, who were, indeed, exactly like her in all things. Question: How were Cinderella and the second wife different? Answer: Cinderella had unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper. The second wife was the proudest and most haughty woman that was ever seen.
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. As soon as the duck perceived him, it cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.' Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. Question: What happened as soon as the duck perceived the Prince? Answer: It cried in a human voice, 'Oh, dear Prince Milan, for the love of Heaven give me back my garment, and I will be so grateful to you.'
Context: Well, the poor man was miserable enough, for he was as fond of his woman as she was of him. It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeks to see his poor children neglected and dirty, as they often were, and they'd be bad enough only for a kind neighbour that used to look in whenever she could spare time. Question: How did the family feel after the wife disappeared? Answer: sad
Context: At length, one morning early, a cock began to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed to understand what he was saying. She was creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew. And as she scooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song, bidding the bones grow till they became a tree. Question: What did the bones grow into? Answer: a tree
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: What did the brother do after he felt jealous of his sister? Answer: stole the pot and mortar
Context: And Snowflake grew fast; each hour as well as each day made a difference, and every day she became more and more beautiful. The cottage was always full of village children, for they amused Snowflake, and there was nothing in the world they would not have done to amuse her. Question: How was Snowflake clever? Answer: noticed everything, and could learn a lesson in a moment
Context: Which last sentence was both unjust and untrue, for the poor Wolf looked as lean and badly nourished as he could possibly be. "Yes, I am," replied the Wolf firmly; and, standing in the middle of the cave, and holding one paw up solemnly he swore this awful oath:      "If it be that I stole the butter; if it be, if it be--     May a fateful, fell disease fall on me, fall on me." Question: Why were the Fox's words about the Wolf unjust and untrue? Answer: The poor Wolf looked as lean and badly nourished as he could possibly be.
Context: And this cup was filled with heather ale, which foamed up over the brim; and when the Knight saw Sir Gregory, he lifted it from the table, and handed it to him with a stately bow, and Sir Gregory, being very thirsty, drank. And as he drank he noticed that the ale in the goblet never grew less, but ever foamed up to the edge; and for the first time his heart misgave him, and he wished that he had never set out on this strange adventure. Question: How did the goblins feel after Earl Gregory drank the ale and fell to the ground? Answer: happy
Context: Yamato Take had now fulfilled all his father's orders, he had subdued all rebels, and rid the land of all robbers and enemies to the peace, and his renown was great, for in the whole land there was no one who could stand up against him, he was so strong in battle and wise in council. He was about to return straight for home by the way he had come, when the thought struck him that he would find it more interesting to take another route, so he passed through the province of Owari and came to the province of Omi. Question: Why did the Prince pass through the province of Owari? Answer: The thought struck him that he would find it more interesting to take another route.
Context: It happened that the King's son gave a ball, and invited all persons of fashion to it. They were mightily delighted at this invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns, petticoats, and head-clothes as might become them. Question: How did the young misses feel after being invited to the ball? Answer: delighted
Context: At one time a buffalo would gain handsomely upon Aggo, and be just at the point of laying hold of him, when off Aggo would hop, a good furlong, in an oblique line, wide out of his reach; which bringing him nearly in contact with another of the herd, away he would go again, just as far off in another direction. It was an extraordinary road that Aggo was taking toward home; and after a time it so puzzled and bewildered the buffalos that they were driven half out of their wits, and they roared, and brandished their tails, and foamed, as if they would put out of countenance and frighten out of sight the old man in the moon, who was looking on all the time, just above the edge of the prairie. Question: What happened to the king after he fled in disgust? Answer: The king never more appeared in all that part of the country.
Context: One sunshiny morning, when there were just two or three promising clouds rolling moistly about the sky, Aggo prepared to go out a-fishing; but before he left the lodge he reminded her of her strange and industrious lover, whom she had never seen. With this excellent advice, Aggo hopped off in high spirits; but he had scarcely reached the fishing-ground when he heard a voice singing, at a distance:      Man with the leg tied up,     Man with the leg tied up,         Broken hip--hip--             Hipped. Question: What was Aggo prepared to do? Answer: go out a-fishing
Context: Get on my back, and I will gallop till my whole body is wet with perspiration, then rub it all over your skin, and no matter how hot the oil may be you will never feel it.' But first he went to the stables and sought out the horse, and said to him: 'It is to you that I owe my life and my crown. Question: Who did the horse turn out to be? Answer: The soul of the unhappy man for whom he spent all his fortune.
Context: After a time the foster-mother wanted to take another journey, and she forbade the girl, above all, to go into the two rooms which, as yet, she had not entered. When the foster-mother returned, and saw the moon had slipped out, she again grieved greatly, and told the girl she could keep her no longer, and that now she must go. Question: How did the foster-mother feel when the moon slipped out? Answer: annoyed
Context: Then Manawyddan held out his hands and greeted Pryderi and Rhiannon, and they seated themselves joyfully on the grass. She turned into a young woman, the fairest that ever was seen. Question: How did Manawyddan feel after he saw Pryderi and Rhiannon again? Answer: happy
Context: Once upon a time there was a girl who was to go to the wood and drive the cattle home; but she did not find the herd, and losing her way instead, came to a great hill. Straightway people arrived who wanted to dance with the girl; but she would hear nothing of it. Question: Who laid in the bed? Answer: a great snake
Context: The king and queen and the princess, too, stood in the hall-way, and wondered what sort of a fellow this was, who could herd hares without losing a single one. But while he lay in all comfort beside a strawberry patch, they sent out the chamber-maid from the castle to him, and she was to find out how he managed to herd the king's hares. Question: What did the king do when Esben returned? Answer: reckoned and added them up, and counted with his fingers, and then added them up again
Context: It had pretty little blue flowers, as delicate as the wings of a moth. People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen. Question: How does the flax feel? Answer: happy
Context: Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them. Thus did the wife find consolation in work during the lonely days of her husband's absence. Question: How did the wife feel while her husband was gone? Answer: lonely
Context: The cold winds had all blown themselves away, the ice had melted, the streams were open, and smiled as they looked at the blue sky once more; and the forests, far and wide, in their green mantle, echoed every cheerful sound. But it is in vain that spring returns, and that the heart of Nature is opened in bounty, if we are not thankful to the Master of Life, who has preserved us through the winter. Question: How will life be easier for Gray Eagle and his siblings in the spring? Answer: easier to find food
Context: The debtor proved to be an old miser, who lived at the other end of the village. He stopped and asked her what was the matter, and she answered between her sobs that her husband was dying, and, to make matters worse, a creditor whom he could not pay was anxious to have him taken to prison. Question: How will Jose help the poor woman? Answer: pay his debts
Context: At last, however, the Sunball became aware how sad Letiko was. Then he sent them away, and called two hares to him, and said: 'Will you take Letiko home to her mother?' Question: Why were the foxes declined as the deliverers? Answer: because they will eat and drink Letiko when they grow hungry
Context: Lie there as a testimony of what has happened, and may evil betide the first living man that will ever attempt to move or injure you!" If all fail, I'll give him a cast of heather broth, or a panada of oak bark. Question: How did Far Rua know he was invited to the top of Cullamore? Answer: He heard three whistles.
Context: Dschang Liang took the book and aided the ancestor of the Han dynasty to conquer the empire. When Dschang Liang heard this, he bowed before the youths, and said to his friends: "Those are angel children of the King Father of the East. Question: Who were the angel children of the King Father of the East? Answer: the two boys
Context: In a little village that stood on a wide plain, where you could see the sun from the moment he rose to the moment he set, there lived two couples side by side. The men, who worked under the same master, were quite good friends, but the wives were always quarrelling, and the subject they quarrelled most about was--which of the two had the stupidest husband. Question: What did the two wives always quarrel about? Answer: which of the two had the stupidest husband
Context: She took a few steps, such as a crawling animal may take, and soon found herself on a road beside which people dwelt. "I know that," said the Caterpillar, on the leaf, "my leaf is the largest here. Question: What was the first animal that the little toad encounters? Answer: catepillar
Context: The maid had run away to cry hysterically in the kitchen; Mr. Bostwick was singing "O Promise Me;" the professor was trying to kick the globes off the chandelier; Mrs. Bostwick had switched her recitation to "The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck," and Bessie had stolen into the parlor and was pounding out the overture from the "Flying Dutchman." That night he sat up late writing a political speech he was to deliver the next afternoon at Faneuil hall, but his experiences at the Bostwicks' had so unnerved him that he could scarcely collect his thoughts, and often he would pause and shake his head pityingly as he remembered the strange things he had seen in that usually respectable home. Question: Why did the senator leave? Answer: The senator was not at all sure he would not go crazy himself.
Context: When the Prince reached Omi he found the people in a state of great excitement and fear. It is indeed a matter for wonder that here in this place, so near the capital, a wicked monster has dared to take up his abode and be the terror of the King's subjects. Question: Where was the monster said to live? Answer: Ibuki Mountain
Context: I had bitten the youngest boy in the leg, because he took away the bone I was gnawing; a bone for a bone, I thought! The Snow-man, however, was not listening to him any more; he was looking into the room where the housekeeper lived, where the stove stood on its four iron legs, and seemed to be just the same size as the Snow-man. Question: How did the girl and young man feel when the old yard-dog bit the youngest man? Answer: angry
Context: One day the devil met Kitta Grau:  "Where have you been, old man?" "Well," said the evil one, "I have been out on the farm where the newly wedded couple live. Question: Why did Kittau Grau say the devil talked like a real stupid? Answer: Kittau Grau thought it would be easy to sow dissension between the couple.
Context: At length the next day he was seen coming across the valley, and Oonagh knew that it was time to commence operations. This, to be sure, was wormwood to Finn--I mean going into the cradle in such a cowardly manner--but he knew Oonagh very well; and finding that he had nothing else for it, with a very rueful face he gathered himself into it and lay snug, as she had desired him. "I am," says she, "and I have no reason, I hope, to be ashamed of my husband." Question: Why did Finn lie in the cradle? Answer: His wife told him to.
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: How did the master plan to cure the poor man of his superstition? Answer: ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading
Context: She opened her arms, and could neither ask questions nor reply to them, so moved and delighted was she. The prince told how he had been turned into a wolf, and of all he had suffered while running about in the forest; and the princess told of her grief, and the many tears she had shed while he had been gone. Then the old man said: "He is a messenger sent on ahead by the king your father. Question: What did the princess want to do when she saw the king's messenger? Answer: descend the hill at once to meet her father
Context: The hunter's son followed, and having come to the tree, he beheld the face of the boy looking out through an opening in the hollow part. he said, "my friend, come out and play with me;" and he urged the boy till he consented. "Yes," the boy answered, "I was very lonesome, and I ran round and round--that is the cause of it." The hunter was again returning, and came to a rising ground, which caught the winds as they passed, and he heard his son laughing and making a noise, but the sounds as they reached him on the hill-top, seemed as if they arose from two persons playing. When he cast his eyes around, he saw that the lodge was in greater confusion than before. " My son," he said, "you must be very foolish when alone to play so. True," he continued, "here is the print of a foot which is smaller than my son's;" and he was now satisfied that his suspicions were well founded, and that some very young person had been the companion of his son. The boy could not now refuse to tell his father what had happened. Question: What will happen whenever the hunter is away from the lodge? Answer: The beautiful boy will come out of his hollow tree.
Context: The youth turned around quickly, and was so astonished that his nose and ears nearly fell off. But now they were delivered, because he had come down to them, and had never contradicted. Question: What did the maiden look like? Answer: fair and beautiful as the sun
Context: "At what time does the princess ride to her dearest to-night?" When the time came, the comrade was standing in the stable, wearing his Three-Sisters Hat, and after the princess had anointed the goat and spoken her formula, off they went through the air as before, with the comrade sitting in back. Question: What was the real reason why the princess had been thrashed? Answer: The comrade kept giving the princess a cuff here, and a cuff there, until she had received a terrible drubbing.
Context: Said the other: "In your district there lives a certain Wang, who was formerly superintendent of the granaries, and at that time caused the death of an officer. The Lord of the Great Mountain has ordered that Wang's property and life be shortened. Question: What will happen to Wang after the man comes to Dung's district? Answer: Wang will die.
Context: The marriage took place the following month, and a few days later the old man died quite suddenly. Now Jegu had everything to see to himself, and somehow it did not seem so easy as when the farmer was alive. Question: What occurred to Jaim Riou a few days after the marriage? Answer: He died suddenly.
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: Why did Conchubar and his knights pass through the park? Answer: to partake of an entertainment at the house of the armourer
Context: The man then asked if the hog which was in the boiler was yet cooked. ' I pledge my word,' exclaimed the ram, 'that the division is very unfair so far as I am concerned, for I have been altogether forgotten.' Upon my veracity, he is doomed for evil who owns as companions such four fellows as you are, who tamely suffer one single sheep to carry away your food and devour it before your faces,' exclaimed the man with the twelve eyes; and at the same time going up to the ram, he caught him by the feet and gave him a violent pitch out of the door, so that he fell on his back on the ground; and from that time we saw him no more. Question: How did Fionn feel when he saw the hag metamorphosize his four men into old men? Answer: fearful
Context: Sylvia was glad to have leisure to think, for she could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself, and the time was drawing very near. By degrees I wearied of what had so delighted me at first, especially as I perceived more and more plainly that it is impossible to be constantly smart and amusing without being frequently ill-natured, and too apt to turn all things, even the most serious, into mere occasions for a brilliant jest.' Question: Why was Sylvia was glad to have leisure to think? Answer: She could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself.
Context: Suddenly he heard a laugh It was double, or the one must be the perfect echo of the other. To Wassamo there appeared to be two persons at no great distance. His cousin seemed lost to all earthly sense and sound; for he lay unmoved, smiling, in the calm light of the moon. Question: What happened to Wassamo after he approached the women? Answer: suddenly fell to the earth
Context: Unluckily someone else thought so too, and this was her brother's wife, who had heard all about the pumpkin tree, and sent her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin. At first the girl told him that so few were left that she could not spare any; but when she found that he belonged to her brother, she changed her mind, and went out to the tree and gathered the largest and the ripest that was there. Question: Who had heard all about the pumpkin tree? Answer: her brother's wife
Context: The king enjoined it upon the others in the lodge as a special edict, on pain of instant death, to give to Aggo's daughter every thing that she wanted, and to be careful not to displease her. The king himself went out hunting to obtain the most dainty meats, both of animals and wild fowl, to pleasure her palate; and he treated her every morning to a ride upon one of the royal buffalos, who was so gentle in his motions as not even to disturb a single one of the tresses of the beautiful hair of Aggo's daughter as she paced along. Question: What happened to the king after the daughter was not content with these proofs of attachment? Answer: He fasted from all food, and having thus purified his spirit and cleared his voice.
Context: One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting expedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitch their camp. While the food was cooking they all stretched themselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off to sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over the sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire was almost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savage countries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light it again. Question: Why was it a very serious thing after the fire was almost put out? Answer: It was very hard to light it again.
Context: So he was brought to a spot surrounded by extensive buildings. When the cymbals and kettledrums reechoed through all the courts, they deafened the ear. Question: What did the old woman do after she met Aduan? Answer: sat down and had Aduan show his tricks
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. Question: Why did Maidwa believe that there was no wrong now? Answer: The arrows were bequeathed to him by his father.
Context: The sister replied:  "I do not say no, my brother, to what you desire. We are not forbidden the society of our fellow-mortals, but we are told to cherish each other, and to do nothing that shall not be agreeable to all our little household. Question: Where did the two brothers play and laugh with great spirit? Answer: near a beautiful lake
Context: The guests listened breathlessly, for they felt that they would never hear such wonderful music again. For that very night, after all the Nobles had gone back to their tents, a soldier on guard saw, in the moonlight, a snow-white Hart and Hind moving slowly down the road that ran past the camp. Question: What did a soldier on guard see? Answer: a snow-white Hart and Hind
Context: It was a very dark night, and there was neither moon nor star to light Watanabe on his way. To make the darkness worse a storm came on, the rain fell heavily and the wind howled like wolves in the mountains. Question: What did the other men do once Watanabe left? Answer: shut the sliding shutters close and gathered round the charcoal fire and wondered what would happen
Context: In the days when Murtough Mac Erca was in the High Kingship of Ireland, the country was divided between the old beliefs of paganism and the new doctrines of the Christian teaching. A day of summer was that day, and the King came forth to hunt on the borders of the Brugh, with all his boon companions around him. Question: How will the people feel when their pagan belief is replaced with Christian teaching? Answer: confused
Context: She went away, after saying this, but stopping in at a dry goods store to shop, she forgot the precious box in her new interest and left it lying on the ribbon counter. Bessie never knew, until after she had hung her coat in the hall closet and counted up her parcels, that she had one too many. Question: What happened when Claribel forgot her precious box of bonbons? Answer: Little Bessie Bostwick gathered up the box with her other bundles and trotted off home with it
Context: nan Question: What did Mrs. Tabitha do first? Answer: scrubbed their faces
Context: The cousin of Wassamo recovered heart, and sang once more his sad or mirthful chants, just as the humor was upon him; but he kept close by Wassamo, and watched him in all his movements. He made it a point to ask many questions of the country he came from; some of which his cousin replied to, but others were left entirely in the dark. Question: Why did the cousin keep close by Wassamo? Answer: He did not want to lose Wassamo again.
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: What did the poor man do after he went through the door? Answer: sat down on a piece of rock in the corner, wondering what would happen next
Context: Now it happened that another great castle lay on the opposite side of the forest, in which dwelt a king who owned the forest, and many broad acres of field and meadow round about. And when the king came and happened to look out of his window, he saw the new castle, on whose roof the golden weathercocks were swinging to and fro, from time to time, shining in his eyes. Question: Who did the king send for when he saw the new castle? Answer: his courtiers
Context: The maids saw that there was some hocus-pocus about it, gave her clothes, ran off to fetch the youth who had been sent to find the most beautiful princess in twelve kingdoms, and told him their story. When he saw the beautiful princess, he fell so deeply in love with her that he wanted to marry her out of hand, and when he heard how badly the swart, homely cook had treated her, the latter was promptly punished. Question: What happened when the king saw the beautiful princess? Answer: He fell so deeply in love with her that he wanted to marry her out of hand.
Context: The door of the castle stood open, and they entered a great hall, and looked about them. The sight quite dazzled Martin and Michael, who emptied all the provisions that remained out of their bags, and heaped them up instead with handfuls of copper. Question: What did Martin and Michael do after seeing the room of copper money? Answer: emptied all the provisions that remained out of their bags, and heaped them up instead with handfuls of copper
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: How did the old man appear? Answer: very old and very desolate
Context: thought his brother, who saw his success; but just as little Peepi was getting to land with his prize, up sailed a large white owl from a tree where he, too, had been watching, and laid claim to it. He was naturally much vexed with the owl, and had no sooner delivered over the duck to his sister, the housekeeper, than he flew in the owl's face, and, venting an abundance of reproachful terms, would, in his passion, have torn the very eyes out of the White Owl's head. Question: What did Gray Eagle do to White Owl? Answer: fixed his talons in both sides of the owl, without further introduction or ceremony, flew away with him
Context: In the Skalunda mountain, near the church, there once lived a giant in the early days, who no longer felt comfortable after the church had been built there. He decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells; so he emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea. Question: What did the giant do when he decided that he could no longer stand the ringing of the church bells? Answer: emigrated and settled down on an island far out in the North Sea
Context: The next day the two sisters were at the ball, and so was Cinderella, but dressed more magnificently than before. When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them: If they had been well diverted, and if the fine lady had been there. Question: What did the prince do after Cinderella left behind one of her glass slippers? Answer: took up most carefully
Context: The heavens were clear, and the sun shone out as brightly to Strong Desire as on the first morning when he had put forth his little head from the door of his father's lodge. As they approached the shore, Strong Desire saw that the ribs of the sorcerer's canoe were formed of living rattlesnakes, whose heads pointed outward to guard him from his enemies. Question: What did Red Head do to pacify the rattlesnakes? Answer: spoke to them
Context: There was only one person who was not pleased at Hase-Hime's success. At last the step-mother, seizing the opportunity of her husband's absence, ordered one of her old servants to take the innocent girl to the Hibari Mountains, the wildest part of the country, and to kill her there. Unless he killed her, however, he could not return to his cruel task-mistress, so he decided to stay out in the wilderness. Question: Who was Katoda? Answer: the step-mother's old servant
Context: It was not long after this that Setanta received the name by which he is more generally known. Now, when they were seen afar upon the plain the smith left his workshop and put by his implements, and having washed from him the sweat and smoke, made himself ready to receive his guests; but the evening fell as they were coming into the liss, and all his people came in also, and sat at the lower table, and the bridge was drawn up and the door was shut for the night, and the candles were lit in the high chamber. Question: Where was Culain's house? Answer: west of Emain Macha, and more than a mile distant from the city
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: What did the Fairy wish to know? Answer: how the other princesses who had grown up and left her, were prospering
Context: The old woman at last found a nice spot by the river bank and put her basket down. Then she set to work to wash the clothes; she took them one by one out of the basket and washed them in the river and rubbed them on the stones. Question: What did the woman do when she found a nice spot by the river? Answer: put her basket down
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: Who was Per Gynt? Answer: a marksman
Context: Ah, if only the little lady were sitting beside me in the boat, it might be twice as dark for all I should care!' Suddenly there came along a great water-rat that lived in the tunnel. Question: Where did the great water-rat live? Answer: the tunnel
Context: And then, without further delay or question, the cousin ran off with breathless dispatch to the village. And joy lit up the lodge-circle as though a new fire had been kindled in the eyes of his friends and kinsfolk. Question: What will happen now that the village knows Wassamo is alive? Answer: The village will not kill Netawis.
Context: As a punishment for having once upon a time used that foot against a venerable medicine man, Aggo Dah Gauda had one leg looped up to his thigh, so that he was obliged to get along by hopping. Dah Gauda, too, was quite an important person in his own way, for he lived in great state, having a log house of his own, and a court-yard which extended from the sill of his front-door as many hundred miles westward as he chose to measure it. Question: What did Aggo advise his daughter to do? Answer: keep within doors, and by no means to go far in the neighborhood
Context: All you want is a grindstone, the rest comes of itself: I have one here. And so he handed over the goose to the pedlar and received the grindstone in exchange. Question: How did Hans feel when he carried off the stone? Answer: content
Context: Cock Robin looked sideways at Lucie with his bright black eye, and he flew over a stile and away. PRESENTLY she came to a spring, bubbling out from the hill-side. Question: Why did Lucie climb up the hill? Answer: Because she thought she saw some white things spread upon the grass.
Context: The banqueting hall had been prepared for our reception at that time, and the giant was dragged into the middle of the house, and was there placed in the sight of all present. "Then I repented me of the indignity put upon the giant, and I released him from his bonds and I bade Liagan Luaimneach companion him to the presence of his betrothed one and testify to her on my behalf of his prowess in the race, wherein he had outstripped all the Fenians of Eire, save only myself. Question: What did Roc's betrothed do when she head about Roc's plan to race? Answer: sneered
Context: The lamp had very great anxiety about the next day, for it knew that it had to appear for the first time at the town hall to be inspected by the mayor and the council, who were to decide whether it was fit for further service; whether it was good enough to be used to light the inhabitants of one of the suburbs, or in the country, at some factory. If the lamp could not be used for one of these purposes, it would be sent at once to an iron foundry to be melted down. Question: What will happen if the town hall decides the street lamp can't be used? Answer: it will be sent to an iton foundry and melted down
Context: In fear they for a time held their peace, but still taking note that the stranger came so often and by stealth to the lodge, they resolved at last to speak with their father. In course of time the two boys had grown to be men, and although the mother was never more seen in the lodge, in charge of her household tasks, nor on the path in the forest, nor by the river side, she still lingered, ever and ever, near the lodge. The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! They now might well be in extreme fear, for they knew not how to escape her. The crane so addressed was of extraordinary size, and had arrived at a great old age, and, as might be expected, he sat, when first descried by the two sons, in a state of profound thought, revolving his long experience of life there in the midst of the most violent eddies. Question: Why did the mother seek revenge? Answer: Her sons told her husband about the young man.
Context: She fetched soft soap, and flannel, and a new scrubbing brush from the
storeroom. She swept, and scrubbed, and dusted; and she rubbed up the furniture
with beeswax, and polished her little tin spoons. Question: Why did Mr. Jackson come to the party even though he was not invited? Answer: He smelt the party and came up the bank.
Context: "Now you can go to the devil, and fetch the tribute from him," said the king. But since he was there, he would stay there, for he had to take home the tribute, and he had plenty of time to wait. Question: What did Murmur do while he waited for the devil to return? Answer: ate his provisions
Context: Dectera, one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa, married a prince whose patrimony lay along the shores of the Muirnict, and whose capital was Dun Dalgan. Of the several knights he had his own opinion, and had already resolved to accept no one as his instructor save Fergus Mac Roy, tanist of Ulster. Question: What was the name of one of the sisters of Conchubar Mac Nessa? Answer: Dectera
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: What did the Fairies do after they woke up? Answer: began to go about their household occupations, and to carry out certain curious practices which he had never seen before
Context: At a distance the young nobles were at their sports, and the shouts of the boys and the clash of the metal hurles resounded in the evening air. Fergus and the King looked at each other for a moment in silence. The boys, seized with a panic, cried out that it was one of the Tuatha from the fairy hills of the Boyne, and fled right and left to gain the shelter of the trees. Question: What did Fergus and the King see when they looked up? Answer: a strange boy rushing backwards and forwards through the crowd of young nobles, urging the ball in any direction that he pleased
Context: A prize, or rather two prizes, a great one and a small one, had been awarded for the greatest swiftness in running,--not in a single race, but for the whole year. " The snail certainly took half a year to get over the threshold of the door; but he injured himself, and broke his collar-bone by the haste he made. Question: Who witnessed the distribution of prizes? Answer: the fence-rail
Context: When night came, he was pleased to find himself near another village. Maidwa again set out rather slowly, but when the sun had risen, he tried his speed by shooting an arrow ahead, and running after it. But it fell behind him, and he knew that he had lost nothing of his quickness of foot. Question: Where did Maidwa see light emitted from? Answer: a small low lodge
Context: Now when the girl had left her foster-mother, and had wandered for a time, she came to a large, large wood, and no matter how far she went she could not reach its end. And when he came to the spring, he also saw the picture, and at once looked up into the tree. Question: Why did the serving-maid throw down the pail? Answer: She thought the girl's reflection was her own.
Context: And the King was astonished at her, and he began to ask her questions, for it seemed to him that the power of a great goddess of the ancient time was in her; and he asked her whence she came, and what manner was the power that he saw in her. He asked her, too, did she believe in the God of the clerics, or was she herself some goddess of the older world? Question: What did Sheen say she was? Answer: like thee, a daughter of the race of men of the ancient family of Adam and of Eve; fit and meet my comradeship with thee
Context: The moment that Golden Bird had touched the bars of the splendid cage he awoke, and began to whistle, so that all the servants of the castle ran to see what was the matter, saying that he was a thief and must be put in prison. If I have taken the Golden Blackbird, it is only that it may cure my father, who is ill, and I have travelled more than seven hundred miles in order to find it.' Question: How does the story describe the cage that the Golden Blackbird lives in? Answer: a little cage with another cage besize it made all of gold
Context: I do not just know how many there were, but the youngest was not content at home. In the morning the giant wanted to go off to herd his goats, and when he started he told the king's son he was to clean the stable in the meantime. " Question: Where did the youngest come to after wandering for a few days? Answer: a giant's castle
Context: WHEN she came out, the sandy whiskered gentleman was sitting on a log reading the newspaper--at least he had it spread out, but he was looking over the top of it. JEMIMA PUDDLE-DUCK came every afternoon; she laid nine eggs in the nest. I will provide lard for the stuff-lard for the omelette," said the hospitable gentleman with sandy whiskers. Question: Why does Jemima decide to bring a bag of corn? Answer: so that she doesn't need to leave the next until the eggs are hatched
Context: The happiness which then filled the prince and princess may be imagined, but cannot be described. They lived happily together ever after, and from that time forward even the prince's mother was very fond of the young queen. Question: How did the prince's mother feel about the young queen? Answer: very fond
Context: asked Tron Valfjeldet--for that was what he called the wolves. When he had reached the farmstead, he went into the house and asked for shelter. Question: Where did many trolls congregate on Christmas eve? Answer: a farmstead at Dovre
Context: It happened that an old sick man who lived near by had begged to be carried out and to be laid at the foot of the wall so that the beams of the rising sun might fall upon him, and he would be able to talk with his friends as they passed by to their work. But so it was; and as the steeple opposite was touched by the golden light, the poor man shut his eyes and sprang forward. Question: Who lived near by had begged to be carried out and to be laid at the foot of the wall? Answer: an old sick man
Context: Three brothers were left destitute, by the death of their parents, at an early age. The eldest became expert in the craft of the forest, and he was very successful in procuring food. Question: Who was the expert in the craft of the forest? Answer: the eldest
Context: The third day the prince went by, and stopped to talk with the strange woman. The two evenings my wife gave me something to drink, but I don't know whether it was a sleepy posset or not.' ' The prince and princess went with the rest, and by the time all were safe on the lawn, down came the building, and made the ground tremble for miles round. Question: How did the prince feel after he heard the youngest princess's song? Answer: confused
Context: This curious instrument was invented by Kotei, one of the three Chinese Emperors of the Mythological age. As she looked at the North Star, strange to relate, it shot forth vivid flashes of lightning in every direction. Question: What did Kotei's mom see when she looked at the North Star? Answer: It shot forth vivid flashes of lightning in every direction.
Context: When they reached home, and the maiden had gone to bed, all went as usual: a man came in and cast himself down in a corner of the room. I have a step-mother who has cast a spell on me, so that by day I am a bear, and at night a human being. When the maiden awoke the next morning, the prince as well as the castle had disappeared. The maiden asked the woman whether she did not know which road led to the prince who lived in the castle that was east of the sun and west of the moon, and who was to marry a princess with a nose three yards long. Question: What happened because the maiden looked at the prince and he awoke? Answer: He must return to his step-mother's castle.
Context: The next time the fish swam by, she put out her hand and caught him. Then she ran along the grassy path till she came to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rocks into a basin. Now the girl did not tell her sisters about the fish, but every day she saved half of her rice to give him, and called him softly in a little song she had made for herself. Question: What did the youngest sister call her pet fish? Answer: Djulung-djulung
Context: The King sent off for his physician in ordinary, who washed Jack all over with various essences and salves, so that he became white and was a remarkably handsome young man. After some years Jack and his wife went to visit his father, but the farmer did not recognize him, and declared he had no son; he had had one, but that one was born with bristles like a hedgehog, and had gone off into the wide world. Question: Who washed Jack my Hedgehog with various essences and salves? Answer: the King's physician
Context: Hidesato was astonished at the feast that was spread for him. As soon as they sat down, the sliding doors opened and ten lovely goldfish dancers came out, and behind them followed ten red-carp musicians with the koto and the samisen. Question: What did they eat off of? Answer: crystallized lotus leaves and flowers
Context: If it was to make his wife contented and happy it was well worth the risk. 'You may as well come out,' said the king, 'and hear what I have to say.' Question: Why did the husband take the risk of opening the lid? Answer: to his wife contented and happy
Context: "Arguments are extremely vulgar, for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions. I hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants to talk about oneself, as I do. There is no good talking to him," said a Dragon-fly, who was sitting on the top of a large brown bulrush; "no good at all, for he has gone away." "I am not going to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention. "I am sure that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind. "My good creature," cried the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice, "I see that you belong to the lower orders. "I am glad that she has gone," he said to himself, "she has a decidedly middle-class mind"; and he sank a little deeper still into the mud, and began to think about the loneliness of genius, when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came running down the bank, with a kettle and some sticks. Question: How did the Rocket feel about the animals he met in the mud? Answer: haughty
Context: He is the Yellow Lord or Ancient, who created this world together with the other four. His most celebrated incarnation, however, is that of Laotsze, "The Old Child," which name he was given because he made his appearance on earth with white hair. Question: What name was Laotsze given? Answer: The Old Child
Context: The simple-minded crab could not resist the monkey's clever persuasion. As soon as the crab reached home he put the persimmon-seed in the ground as the monkey had told him. Question: What did the crab do when he reached home? Answer: put the persimmon-seed in the ground
Context: So the youth served out his three years, and did better than they had expected him to do. Now when his master was to go to do his buying, he set out as early as possible in the morning. " Question: When did the master go to do his buying? Answer: as early as possible in the morning
Context: I see a creature in thy hand like upon a mouse, and ill does it become a man of thy rank to touch a reptile like this. I caught it robbing me, and it shall suffer the doom of a thief.' Question: How were the priest and scholar similar? Answer: They both wanted to buy the mouse's freedom.
Context: And he and Jemima and Rebeccah Puddle-Duck set off up the road, keeping step-pit pat, paddle pat! Then Tabitha Twitchit came down the garden and found her kittens on the wall with no clothes on. Question: How will Tabitha Twitchwit feel after seeing the kittens with no clothes on? Answer: upset
Context: The lamp burned through the whole evening and began to perceive too clearly that the gift of the stars would remain a hidden treasure all its life. This caused the lamp quite as much anxiety as on the day when it had been called upon to appear before the mayor and the council at the town hall. Question: What did the lamp dream of? Answer: being sent to the foundry
Context: On the following day the clerk passed by the Master Girl's little house. Then she asked him to shut the house-door, which she said she had forgotten to do. All grinned and stared at the clerk, for he ran like a madman, and looked worse than if a ram had been butting him all night long. Question: What happened once the clerk had the door-knob in his hand? Answer: He was stuck.
Context: The story went on, but the story-teller never once looked at the prince, even through her veil, though he on his side never moved his eyes from her. When she reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree, the king's son could restrain himself no longer. Question: How did the prince know that the story-teller was his wife? Answer: She reached the part where she had sat weeping in the tree.
Context: No sooner were the ceremonies of the wedding over but the mother-in-law began to show herself in her true colors. and scrubbed madam's chamber, and those of misses, her daughters; she lay up in a sorry garret, upon a wretched straw bed, while her sisters lay in fine rooms, with floors all inlaid, upon beds of the very newest fashion, and where they had looking-glasses so large that they might see themselves at their full length from head to foot. Question: What did the mother-in-law do to show herself in her true colors? Answer: employed Cinderella in the meanest work of the house
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: What did the stranger do after he found out the man was a seal catcher? Answer: ordered a great number of seal skins
Context: "What's the use of being in the country," she thought, "if I must act just as I did in the city? While she rested and wondered what she could do next, a farmer came along, driving an empty cart. Question: What will Little Miss Muffet do after seeing the farmer driving an empty cart? Answer: catch on the end of the cart, and actually climb into it
Context: Momotaro knew at once that what they saw was the devils' stronghold. On the top of the precipitous shore, looking out to sea, was a large castle. Question: Why did Momotaro send the bird first? Answer: He has good wings.
Context: In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife. The nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent. Question: Who were both young and handsome and strong? Answer: a charcoal-burner and his wife
Context: The cabin-boy had been traveling around all summer long with his captain; but when they began to prepare to set sail in the fall, he grew restless and did not want to go along. But you must know that he was a Sunday child, and had found a four-leaf clover; and that was the reason he had the second sight. Question: Who was left to guard the ship? Answer: the youth
Context: Two holes were left for the eyes, and Ivan carefully shaped out the mouth. And the loose snow fell away from Snowflake as an egg shell does from an egg, and it was a little girl whom Marie held in her arms. Question: How did Ivan and Marie feel when the snow child moved its little arms and little legs? Answer: happy
Context: You shall know about it, but first of all let us be married; before that nothing counts!" Thereupon they agreed as to how they would go about getting the youth's ring away from him, and then, thought they, it would not really be hard to get rid of him. Question: Why did the princess pretend to be unhappy? Answer: to trick the youth
Context: They were real wampum, white and blue, shining and beautiful; and the young man, placing them in his bosom, set off; but as he did not seem quite steady in his belief of the strange woman's story, the dog Spirit-Iron, taking his arm, kept close by his side, and gave him many words of encouragement as they went along. He seemed to be so very ill that the Toad-Woman at length asked what she could do for him. Question: How did the Toad-Woman know trouble was coming? Answer: from something in the dog's eye
Context: Karen looked first at the black shoes, then at the red ones--looked at the red ones again, and put them on. And all the people inside looked at Karen's red shoes, and all the figures gazed at them; when Karen knelt before the altar and put the golden goblet to her mouth, she thought only of the red shoes. Question: Which color shoes did Karen put on? Answer: red
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: Who did Fionn see standing by the door jamb to the right hand? Answer: an aged, hoary-headed man
Context: Presently in his course he came to a great field of castor-oil plants, ten or twelve feet high, big and bushy, but quite green and soft. Hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed Moti grasped one in passing, but its roots gave way, and he dashed on, with the whole plant looking like a young tree flourishing in his grip. panted the messenger, 'fly at once, there is no time to lose. Question: Why did the enemy think Moti was a mad giant? Answer: He rode a little pony.
Context: Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. Question: How did the monkey feel after winning? Answer: satisfied
Context: We will share your sufferings; we will abandon our journey, and take care of you as you did of us before we were able to take care of ourselves. Do you think we can so soon forget your brotherly care, which has equaled a father's, and even a mother's kindness? Question: Why did the falcons want to abandon their journey? Answer: wanted to take care of Gray Eagle
Context: Then she reached the three cutting swords, and got on her plough-wheel and rolled over them. But she knew that the Prince whom she had freed from the iron stove in the great wood was in the castle. Question: Where did the Princess find the Prince? Answer: the castle
Context: 'If you don't, my man, I shall just give you a shake, and one slap of my wing, and send you down to the ground, where every bone in your body will be smashed as small as a drop of dew on a cabbage-leaf in the morning.' ' Why, then, I'm in a fine way,' said I to myself, 'ever to have come along with the likes of you'; and so, giving him a hearty curse in Irish, for fear he'd know what I said, I got off his back with a heavy heart, took hold of the reaping-hook and sat down upon the moon, and a mighty cold seat it was, I can tell you that. Question: What will happen if the eagle gives Daniel a shake and slap of his wing? Answer: The eagle will send Daniel down to the ground.
Context: She opened her arms, and could neither ask questions nor reply to them, so moved and delighted was she. But the prince ran hastily up the hill, embraced her tenderly, and thanked her for delivering him. When the sun rose, they saw that a broad path led from the hill-top straight to the royal castle; for they had a view of the whole surrounding country from the hill-top. That pleased the princess above all things, and she wanted to descend the hill at once to meet her father. But the old man detained her and said: "Wait a while, it is too early yet. She has sent some to meet the king and welcome him but she has sent others to the forest to look for you." More time passed, and the king's daughter was still looking down the road from which the king would appear, when the old man said: "Lovely maiden, turn around! Question: Why did the old man tell the princess to stay there a little while longer? Answer: They had not yet seen how everything will turn out.
Context: There the comrade took the ball of golden twine and flung it against the hill on the other side of the river with such force that it bounded back. Just as he was at the last thread, the witches rushed up, hissing, flung themselves into the water so that the foam splashed high, and snatched at the end of the thread. Question: How did the witches feel as they rushed up to the river after the youth and the comrade? Answer: angry
Context: But that very night she woke up out of her sleep in a great hall that was lighted up with a thousand lamps; the richest carpets were on the floor, and the walls were covered with cloth of gold and silver, and the place was full of grand company, and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dreams was there, and it wasn't a moment till he was on one knee before her, and telling her how much he loved her, and asking her wouldn't she be his queen. A sorceress, that had a beautiful daughter, wished me for her son-in-law; but the mother got power over me, and when I refused to wed her daughter she made me take the form of a bear by day, and I was to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will, and endure five years of great trials after.' Question: What happened after the prince refused to wed the sorceress's daughter? Answer: She made him take the form of a bear by day.
Context: Then he was told to keep a mill grinding which the evil one often brought to a stop. Then the evil one came hobbling up on one leg, and begged fearfully and tearfully for the leg he had lost. Question: Why did the evil one want to trick Aspenclog? Answer: The evil one had to pay Aspenclog the money.
Context: When the day came on which the cabin-boy was to take command, the weather was fair and quiet; but he drummed up the whole ship's crew, and with the exception of a tiny bit of canvas, had all sails reefed. The captain and crew laughed at him, and said: "That shows the sort of a captain we have now. Question: Why did the ship not founder when the first breaker roared down upon the ship? Answer: They had reefed the sails.
Context: The boy went out again and brought home the little animal, which he asked his grandfather to boil, that they might feast on it. As they lived alone, and away from other Indians, the curiosity of the stripling was excited to know what was passing in the world. Question: What happened after the grandfather told the boy about the rabbit? Answer: The boy went out again and brought home the little animal, which he asked his grandfather to boil, that they might feast on it.
Context: The maiden took the pellet into her mouth again and said: "Now all is well!" True, he was now cured of his illness, but his thoughts continued to dwell on Giauna's pretty face. Question: How did Kung feel after he was saved by Giauna? Answer: grateful
Context: When this had been kept up for the customary time, the enchanted dog was completely sweated away, and in his stead, as might have been expected, out came a very handsome young man, but, unhappily, without the power of speech. When the deputation reached the lodge, they were surprised to find, in the place of the dog, a fine young man; and on announcing their message, they all returned to the old chief, who was no less surprised at the change. Question: Why was the old chief no less surprised at the dog's change? Answer: The dog was enchanted.
Context: Wunzh now returned to his father's lodge, where he was warmly welcomed. The summer was drawing toward a close, when one day, after a long absence in hunting, Wunzh invited his father to follow him to the quiet and lonesome spot of his former fast. Question: What happened when Wunzh returned to his father's lodge? Answer: He was warmly welcomed.
Context: The presents which he had received from the grateful Dragon King were found to be of magic power. The bell only was ordinary, and as Hidesato had no use for it he presented it to the temple near by, where it was hung up, to boom out the hour of day over the surrounding neighborhood. Question: What was special about the bag of rice? Answer: the supply in the bag was inexhaustible
Context: One Christmas the two women agreed that they would ride to Christmas night mass, and whichever one of them woke up at the right time was to call the other, for in those days there was no such thing as a watch. It was a piece of this kind that the woman took and put in her pocket, in order to eat it underway. Question: What did the two women agree? Answer: They would ride to Christmas night mass.
Context: But Kung became involved in a dispute with a traveling censor. Kung now inquired after sister Giauna, and was told that she had married. Question: How did the youth and Kung feel when they saw each other again? Answer: excited
Context: He had only gone a few steps when he heard some one calling him from behind. On turning back he was much surprised to see that the monster dragon had entirely disappeared and in its place was a strange-looking man, who was bowing most ceremoniously to the ground. Question: What did the Dragon King request Hidesato to do? Answer: kill his mortal enemy the centipede
Context: He went down to his wife, and sat down in a chair, and gave a groan, and the chair broke in pieces. "It is the son of a king under spells you are," said his wife, "And you had better have taken my counsel than that the spells should be on you." When she runs to my father's land, on a height above the court, she will shake herself, and the bells will ring, and my father will say Brown Allree is in the land. Question: How will the mother feel when the horses keep getting cut into two? Answer: angry
Context: The guests all grew pale with terror when they heard the news. Then she gave me two chargers, a suit of golden armor, and the insignia of a commander-in-chief, and bowed to me. Question: What did the princess give the general after she heard Tschauna invaded her land? Answer: two chargers, a suit of golden armor, and the insignia of a commander-in-chief
Context: Among the mountain pastures and valleys that lie in the centre of France there dwelt a mischievous kind of spirit. Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plaiting together the manes and tails of two of the horses, so that it would take the grooms hours of labour to get them right in the morning. Puck, hidden among the hay in the loft, would peep out to watch them, enjoying himself amazingly all the time. Question: Whose delight was it to play tricks on everybody, and particularly on the shepherds and the cowboys? Answer: a mischievous kind of spirit
Context: He cast his eyes upon his wife, and continued:  "For you, my partner in life, I have less sorrow, because I am persuaded you will not remain long behind me. I have contented myself with the company of your mother and yourselves, during seasons of very frequent scarcity and want. We have not been compelled to look on or to take a part with the red hand in scenes of rioting and bloodshed. Question: What did the man wish to hide his children away from? Answer: bad examples which would have spoiled their innocence
Context: In the evening the princess came with a sleeping potion, and said she wanted to give her lover a drink that would increase his love for her, since it was plain he did not love her enough. After a time the youth woke up, out on the garbage-pile, and at first thought he was dreaming: but when he saw the ring was gone, he understood how it all had happened, and fell into such despair that he got up and wanted to jump right into the sea. Question: How did the youth feel when he saw his ring was missing? Answer: despair
Context: He retraced his steps toward the skeleton, but to his surprise it had disappeared, and the tracks of the wearer of the ball were in another direction. Onwee, finding that he was closely followed, and that the hungry brother was approaching very fast, changed himself into a very old man, with two daughters, and living in a large lodge in the center of a beautiful garden, which was filled with every thing that could delight the eye, or was pleasant to the taste. Question: What did Onwee fill the lodge with? Answer: every thing that could delight the eye, or was pleasant to the taste
Context: When he was finished he looked round for his strange visitor, but she had vanished completely. Although he laughed, he was vexed that his servant should believe in such things, so to cure him, as he thought, of his superstition, he ordered him to take a horse and cart and go back at once, and lift all the peats and bring them to dry in the farm steading. Question: Why was the poor man greatly relieved? Answer: Nothing happened to him when he followed his master's orders.
Context: The princess replied that this could be arranged, and then she received the golden apple. But when the maiden came into the prince's room in the evening, he was sleeping soundly. Question: What did the princess with the long nose do the next morning? Answer: came and drove her out
Context: There he opened a gate and they turned the corner, to the West. Once more the doors of the gate flew open, and now Aduan saw a lotus field about twenty acres in size. Question: Why did Aduan's illness leave him? Answer: He met Rose of Evening at the lotus field.
Context: The tail feathers of this fowl were very short, and it winked with both its eyes, and looked very cunning as it said, "Cluck, cluck." What were the thoughts of the fowl as it said this I cannot tell you, but as soon as our good man saw it, he thought, "Why, that's the finest fowl I ever saw in my life; it's finer than our parson's brood hen, upon my word. Question: How does the story describe the fowl? Answer: short tail feathers
Context: After they had become able to hunt and to take care of themselves, the elder proposed to leave them and to go in search of the world, promising to return as soon as he could procure them wives. One day they agreed to kill each a male of that kind of animal, which each was most expert in hunting, for the purpose of making quivers from their skins. Question: What did the brothers agree to do? Answer: kill each a male of that kind of animal
Context: 'I am come by the powers of the agility of my arm and leg,' responded he, 'having heard there is not one man in the world more liberal in bestowing gifts than you, O Fionn. He then declared 'they were all liars who asserted that I never gave a refusal to any person.' When the Fenian chiefs saw that, they started in pursuit of the giant, while I and the band of minstrels of the town went to the top of the dun to watch their proceedings. Question: What happened after Fionn gave the giant the haunch? Answer: The giant hopped over the lofty stockades of the town. He then made use of the utmost swiftness of his one leg to outstrip all the rest of the Fenians.
Context: Mike by the Stove replied that he had neither said nor thought anything of the kind; but that seeing the king was so severe, he would try it. But he had only pushed a little way into the wood before he grew hungry, and thought he would sample the provisions they had given him at the king's castle. When he had sat down in all peace and comfort under a pine-tree by the side of the road, an old woman came limping along, and asked him what he had in his knapsack. " Question: What happened when Mike by the Stove succeeded in making the whistle sound? Answer: The wood was alive with dwarfs.
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. You will soon see us lie down, and we shall not rise again till the spring. Question: What happened after the season of the Sand-Spirits' vanishing? Answer: They laid themselves down to the long slumber.
Context: Ali Baba borrows his sister-in-law's scales to weigh this new wealth of gold coins. Cassim goes to the cave and enters with the magic words, but in his greed and excitement over the treasures forgets the magic words to get back out again. Question: Why does Cassim forget the magic words to seal the cave? Answer: his greed and excitement over the treasures
Context: The hunter and his wife looked on with astonishment, but remained silent. The third day, the hunter thought that he would anticipate their wants by tying up a share of the hunt, and placing it apart for their express use. Question: Why did the hunter address the strangers when they sighed and sobbed? Answer: He could not sleep.
Context: God-fearing and unafraid, Madame Margaret beckoned the phantom nearer. With a glance of unspeakable gratitude he told her the murderer's name, and disappeared beneath the floor without a sound. Question: How did the phantom feel towards Margaret? Answer: gratitude
Context: 'And one can't get a fellow like this in summer either,' said the young man, pointing to the Snow-man. ' The girl laughed, and nodded to the Snow-man, and then they both danced away over the snow. Question: Why didn't the yard-dog bite the girl and the young man? Answer: The girl often stroked the old yard-dog and the young man gave it bones.
Context: And the grave of Murtough was made wide and deep, and there they laid the Queen beside him, two in the one grave, near the north side of the little church that is in Tuilen. Now, when the burial was finished, and the clerics were reciting over his grave the deeds of the King, and were making prayers for Murtough's soul that it might be brought out of hell, for Cairnech showed great care for this, they saw coming towards them across the sward a lonely woman, star-bright and beautiful, and a kirtle of priceless silk upon her, and a green mantle with its fringes of silver thread flowing to the ground. Question: Who did the clerics and Cairnech see coming towards them across the sward? Answer: a lonely woman
Context: Her godmother, who saw her all in tears, asked her what was the matter. This godmother of hers, who was a fairy, said to her, "You wish you could go to the ball; is it not so?" Question: Who saw Cinderella all in tears? Answer: her godmother
Context: His surname meant "Millionaire," but although he was not so rich as all that, he was still very far removed from being poor. One day, without any reason whatsoever, the thought of death and sickness came to him. Question: How did the idea of falling ill or dying make Sentaro feel? Answer: wretched
Context: "This I can give thee," she said, "and I do it gladly, for these apples are the Apples of Truth; and whoso eateth them gaineth this reward, that his lips will never more be able to frame a lie." Thomas took the apple, and ate it; and for evermore the Grace of Truth rested on his lips; and that is why, in after years, men called him "True Thomas." Question: What did men call Thomas? Answer: True Thomas
Context: Where did the two scholars go together on one spring day? Question: to the hills of Tian Tai Answer: the-two-scholars
Context: When they came to the house of the guardian of the pass, red clouds appeared in the sky. Laotsze's servant told the servant of the guardian that his master owed him a great deal of money, and begged the latter to put in a good word for him. Question: What did Laotsze's servant do when they reached the guardian's house? Answer: told the servant of the guardian that his master owed him a great deal of money, and begged the latter to put in a good word for him
Context: When he reached his fiftieth year, he withdrew from all things and would no longer exercise his arts. It seemed as though some one were patting him on the back, and before he knew it, the ball of fire had leaped out from his throat. Question: Why did the farmer feel ill? Answer: The fox took away the elixir of life from him.
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. One old courtier, Jofuku by name, said that far away across the seas there was a country called Horaizan. Question: Who did Shin-no-Shiko ask to find the "Elixir of Life"? Answer: his courtiers
Context: But Earl St. Clair forgot that he carried a Talisman which his companion lacked, that enabled him to see things as they really were, while the other's eyes were holden, and he was startled and amazed when Earl Gregory said sharply, "Thy mind hath gone mad over this Elfin King. Meanwhile Earl Gregory rode on and on, ever following in the wake of the Knight in green, over moor, and burn, and moss, till he came to the most desolate region that he had ever been in in his life; where the wind blew cold, as if from snow-fields, and where the hoar-frost lay thick and white on the withered grass at his feet. Question: What will happen after Earl Gregory follows the horseman? Answer: He will meet Goblins.
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: Who overtook Gobha Gaoithe and brought the haunch back again to Fionn? Answer: Caoilte
Context: You shall know about it, but first of all let us be married; before that nothing counts!" Thereupon they agreed as to how they would go about getting the youth's ring away from him, and then, thought they, it would not really be hard to get rid of him. Question: Why did the youth not want to tell the princess his secret? Answer: They were not married yet.
Context: Nature showed herself to him sometimes in the dark forests, sometimes in cheerful meadows where the storks were strutting about, or on the deck of a ship sailing across the foaming sea, with the clear, blue sky above, or at night in the glittering stars. Question: Who owned the room? Answer: a poet
Context: The brave Wunzh felt that his strength of body was even less than on the day before, but the courage of his mind seemed to grow. Be strong, my friend, for this is the only way in which you can overcome me and obtain the boon you seek." He put forth his utmost powers, and after a contest more severe than either of the others, the stranger ceased his efforts, and declared himself conquered. I know this, and now tell you what you must do to benefit your family and your people. In the morning, Wunzh's father came to his lodge with some slight refreshments, saying:  "My son, you have fasted long enough. Very confident was Wunzh, all the time, that his friend would again come to life. Question: What will happen when Wunzh follows the stranger's instructions? Answer: Wunzh's wish will come true.
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: How was the poor man a willing fellow? Answer: set to work with all his might and main
Context: The boy went out again and brought home the little animal, which he asked his grandfather to boil, that they might feast on it. As they lived alone, and away from other Indians, the curiosity of the stripling was excited to know what was passing in the world. Question: Where did the boy see ashes like those at his grandfather's lodge and lodge-poles? Answer: the edge of a prairie
Context: West of Gingdschou, two hundred miles away, is another lake, whose god is named Tschauna, and who performs many miracles. While he was in office it chanced that in the fifth month clouds suddenly arose in the sky, piling themselves up like mountains, among which wriggled dragons and serpents; they rolled up and down between the two seas. Question: Where did Dschou Bau live? Answer: Gingdschou
Context: It was so pale, the small eyes had closed themselves, and it drew its breath so softly, now and then, with a deep respiration, as if it sighed. The old man sat and rocked the cradle, and the mother sat down on a chair close by him, and looked at her little sick child that drew its breath so deep, and raised its little hand. Question: What was the mother afraid of? Answer: her child dying
Context: When seamen lose their course among wind and waves and darkling
clouds, they pray devoutly to the Queen of Heaven. When she does
this the wind departs for the North and South, and the waves grow
smooth. Question: What happened after the seamen pray devoutly to the Queen of Heaven? Answer: A red lantern appeared on the face of the waters.
Context: News came that the enemy had entered the land, and the king was compelled to go to war. But the queen laughed at her grief, and her heart was filled with joy to think that all had turned out exactly as she wished. Question: Why was the queen's heart filled with joy? Answer: All had turned out exactly as she wished.
Context: 'The town is easy to get into, but more difficult to get out of,' sighed Hyacinthia. ' The first day passed, and then the second, and at last the third also, but Prince Milan did not return, for he had not taken Hyacinthia's advice. Question: What will happen if the Prince kisses the child? Answer: He will forget Hyacinthia and all that had happened to them.
Context: When he had his story told he laid down the flail on the stone steps, and bid no one for their lives to touch it. Well, the poor fellow, between the pain that was only just gone, and the comfort he was in, had the comicalest face that ever you see; it was such a mixerum-gatherum of laughing and crying. Question: What did the princess do after she laughed? Answer: She came over to Gilla and put her two delicate hands into Tom's two rough ones.
Context: But the youth thought it would be much better to go to the mother in the corner and try to win her daughter. So she furbished him up and tricked him out in the handsomest way, and he himself took out his new shoes and polished them so brightly that you could see yourself in them, and when he had done so he set forth. He took a roundabout way, the longest he could find, for he did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling, and the talk about marriage. Question: Why did the youth choose the longest way? Answer: He did not want to go down to the rat again because he was sick of her eternal wiggling and waggling and the talk about marriage.
Context: At that time there was one who was known as the True Prince of the Jasper Castle. They all aided the True Prince of the Jasper Castle to rule over the thousand tribes under the heavens, and to deal out life and death, fortune and misfortune. Question: Who acquired the art of sorcery through the cultivation of magic? Answer: the True Prince of the Jasper Castle
Context: As soon as the first buds of spring appeared, and the delicious fragrance of the young year began to sweeten the air, his father, with the help of his younger brothers, built for Wunzh the customary little lodge. After he had become too weak to walk about, and confined himself strictly to the lodge, he recalled these thoughts, and turning them in his mind, he wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to his father and family, and to all others of his fellow-creatures. Question: What happened after Wunzh became too languid to walk about and confined himself to the lodge? Answer: He recalled these thoughts and wished he could dream of something that would prove a benefit to his father and family, and to all others of his fellow-creatures.
Context: When night came, he was pleased to find himself near another village. When at a distance he heard the watchman crying out, "We are visited!" Although urged to stay with them, the mind of Maidwa was fixed on the object of his journey. He went up to it very slyly, and, peeping through the door, he discovered an old man alone, with his head down upon his breast, warming his back before the fire. Maidwa was very hungry, and seeing the limited scale of the old man's housekeeping, he thought his chance for a supper was very slight. Question: Why did Maidwa think the old man did not know he was standing near the door? Answer: The old man was warming his back before the fire.
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: Where did Kintoki live? Answer: Kyoto
Context: At length, one morning early, a cock began to crow so loud that she could sleep no longer and as he continued to crow she seemed to understand what he was saying. She was creeping out carried the bones to the cave by the fountain, where she dug a hole and buried them anew. And as she scooped out the hole with a stick she sang a song, bidding the bones grow till they became a tree. Question: Why did the cock crow so loudly? Answer: He was telling her that Djulung was dead, killed and eaten by her sisters. His bones lay buried under the kitchen fire.
Context: And so it did, for very soon the poor brother reached the place, bespattered with mud from head to foot, but ready to do all he could to help with the mule and his master. When he saw this the muleteer's anger knew no bounds, and forgetting that without the help given him he would have lost his mule altogether, he began to abuse the poor man, declaring that he had ruined his beast, and the law would make him pay for it. Question: How did the muleteer feel after the elder brother ruined his mule? Answer: mad
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fionn," said Conan, "and tell me who was the man that, having only one leg, one arm, and one eye, escaped from you in consequence of his swiftness. He went out on the plain, but he had only gone a short distance when Caoilte, son of Ronan, his own brother, overtook him, and brought the haunch back again to me, and we had no further dispute about the matter. Question: What did Fionn and the sons of Ronan see? Answer: a huge, obnoxious, massy-boned, black, detestable giant, having only one eye, one arm, and one leg
Context: In fact, although it was such a small shop it sold nearly everything--except a few things that you want in a hurry--like bootlaces, hair-pins and mutton chops. Question: How did the rabbits feel about Pickles? Answer: afraid
Context: Silverwhite continued to wander over hill and dale, until he reached a great city. But the whole city was in mourning, the houses were hung in black, and all the inhabitants went about full of grief and care, as though some great misfortune had occurred. Question: What did the city look like when Silverwhite arrived? Answer: The whole city was in mourning, the houses were hung in black, and all the inhabitants went about full of grief and care.
Context: "I was giving a representation," he said, "in the hall of the posting-house in the little town of Slagelse. All at once, a person in black, of student-like appearance, entered the room, and sat down. Question: why was the man curious about the spectator? Answer: because he was unusual
Context: The little old woman who makes war was in an excellent humor, and she received Strong Desire with rejoicing. She admired his prudence, and assured him his bravery should never be questioned again. Question: What did the little old woman give Strong Desire to throw into the opening? Answer: a partridge
Context: The enchanter blew a second and a third, and Finn caught them both. Soon he perceived that he could not possibly overtake the swift enchanter. Question: What happened to the enchanter on the third occasion Finn caught the fire-ball? Answer: The enchanter saw Finn's face, and recognised his conqueror.
Context: But the wily Fox was fond of butter, and he made up his mind that he would have it all to himself. It behoveth us to have foresight, and to lay up in store for the spring, when the grain is all threshed, and the stackyards are bare, and the poultry have gone to market. Question: Why did the Fox want to wait until the spring to use the butter? Answer: They needed to wait until the grain was all threshed, and the stackyards were bare, and the poultry had gone to market in the spring.
Context: BUT round the end of a cucumber frame, whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor! PETER was most dreadfully frightened; he rushed all over the garden, for he had forgotten the way back to the gate. Question: What happened to Peter's shoes? Answer: He lost one of his shoes among the cabbages, and the other shoe amongst the potatoes.
Context: "It really seems to me," thought the wild rose, though she did not express her opinion aloud--it is not in her nature to do so,--though it would have been quite as well if she had; "it certainly seems to me that the sunbeam ought to have had the honor of receiving the first prize. It is glorious to bloom, to be fragrant, and to live; to live in story and in song. Question: Why does the rose think the sunbeam should have won? Answer: it travels from the sun to Earth so quickly
Context: SHE set off on a fine spring afternoon along the cart-road that leads over the hill. WHEN she reached the top of the hill, she saw a wood in the distance. Question: What did Jemina Puddle-Duck see when she reached the top of the hill? Answer: a wood in the distance
Context: Morraha rose in the morning, and washed his hands and face, and said his prayers, and ate his food. The next day Morraha went to the brink of the sea, and the young man came in the currach and asked him would he play cards. And he drew up his boat on the shore, and asked him would he play cards. And he said he should have a castle, and of women the finest and fairest; and they were his. Question: Why will Morraha play with the young man again? Answer: Morraha wants to win.
Context: "Why," said she, "that's Finn's bread--the only bread he ever eats when at home; but, indeed, I forgot to tell you that nobody can eat it but himself and that child in the cradle there. "I'd like to take a glimpse at the lad in the cradle," said he to Oonagh, "for I can tell you that the infant who can manage that nutriment is no joke to look at or to feed of a scarce summer." Question: What did Finn do that frightened the giant? Answer: gave a skirl
Context: But he was doubtful whether the crocodile would consent to do what wanted. So with a loud voice he called to the crocodile, and said:  "Oh, Mr. Crocodile, isn't it a lovely day?" Question: Why did the crocodile feel pleased to see the hare? Answer: The crocodile was just beginning to feel a bit lonely.
Context: Hidesato was astonished at the feast that was spread for him. Thus the hours flew by till midnight, and the beautiful music and dancing had banished all thoughts of the centipede. Then Hidesato called to the Dragon King to come out with him on the balcony, for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear. Question: Why was the second feast more scrumptuous than the first? Answer: Hidesato killed the centipede.
Context: No matter however strong and brave the Emperor's soldiers were, the rebel with his magic could always escape in the end. With this instrument to show him the way he need not fear the dense fogs raised up by the magician to confound his men. Question: How was Shiyu always able to escape? Answer: his magic
Context: He was lying in the road beating his wings, and unable to move from the spot because he was so starved. " I have not much food, nor are you likely to be able to help me much," said the king's son, "but still I can give you a little, for it is easy to see you need it." Question: Why was the raven unable to move? Answer: He was so starved.
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Where did the Bresna take Tom? Answer: the widow's door
Context: There was a trembling in the poor creature's hand, and he was not able to cut a piece at all off the bull, after his feeding him for so long, and after the kindness he had got from him. "I'm as good a herd as ever you saw, but I'll not tell you a lie--I can do nothing but herding; but, indeed, I'll do that as well as any man that ever you saw." Question: Who were on the gentleman's land? Answer: three giants
Context: When they approached the capital, all the people came out to meet them with great joy and acclamation, and when the King reached his palace the Queen met him on the threshold; beside her stood the Prime Minister, holding a little cradle in his hands, in which lay a new-born child as beautiful as the day. The secret of the King remained a secret, though his grave, careworn expression escaped no one's notice. Question: How did the newborn look? Answer: as beautiful as the day
Context: 'Yes, when we had cleaned the raspberries so carefully,' said Lisa. Question: How did the siblings find the worm? Answer: It crept out from that very large one.
Context: Then, after some time had passed, the youngest decided to set out to herd the king's hares, and told his father of his intention. Esben merely kept on saying that he wanted to go to court and serve the king, for he would not take service with any lesser master, said he. Question: What would one have to be in order to escape with a whole back? Answer: more than quick and nimble, and swifter than a bird
Context: They searched the hall, and there was no man, and the castle, and there was none. No others were bought throughout the whole of Hereford, till the saddlers banded together and resolved to slay Manawyddan and his companions. Question: What did Rhiannon, Manawyddan, Kieva and Pryderi do for a year? Answer: fed on the meat that Manawyddan and Pryderi killed out hunting, and the honey of the bees that sucked the mountain heather
Context: 'Well, since I have come at the doom of this reptile, I will ransom it of thee for seven pounds, rather than see a man of thy rank touch it. 'If thou wilt not set it free for this, I will give thee all the horses thou seest and the seven loads of baggage.' Question: Why did the bishop offer money to Manawyddan? Answer: He wanted to save the mouse.
Context: You may be sure no other body went near it; and when the early risers were passing next morning they found two long clefts in the stone where it was, after burning itself an opening downwards, nobody could tell how far. Well, I suppose before they were married Gilla got some man like Pat Mara of Tomenine to larn him the "principles of politeness," fluxions, gunnery, and fortifications, decimal fractions, practice, and the rule-of-three direct, the way he'd be able to keep up a conversation with the royal family. Question: Who taught Gilla the "principles of politeness?" Answer: Pat Mara of Tomenine
Context: When the guardian's servant heard how large a sum it was, he was tempted to win so wealthy a man for a son-in-law, and he married him to his daughter. I said to you: 'If you will follow me into the West, the land of Blessed Repose, I will pay you your wages in yellow gold. Question: Why did the servant suddenly collapse and turn into a heap of bones? Answer: Laotsze took away the life-giving talisman.
Context: No matter however strong and brave the Emperor's soldiers were, the rebel with his magic could always escape in the end. With this instrument to show him the way he need not fear the dense fogs raised up by the magician to confound his men. But this time no soldier minded the fog, not one was confused. Question: How will Shiyu cross the river? Answer: his magic
Context: When they reached home the gates and doors had long since vanished,
and the people of the village were all strangers to them. At last he
fell at Liu Tschen's feet with great joy and cried: "Yes, you are
really my master! Question: How did the servant feel when he saw his master again? Answer: great joy
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: What did the old man hear day after day? Answer: the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow
Context: When you reach the middle of the Yellow River, beat against the side of the ship and call out: 'Greencoat!' And with these words he handed Hu-Wu-Bau the letter, and he was taken back again to the upper world. Question: What will happen when Hu-Wu-Bau returns to the upper world? Answer: He will go on a journey to deliver the letter.
Context: "I can't help myself," said Hans, "I have this great lump to carry. "When you want to go fast," said he, "you must click your tongue and cry 'Gee-up!'" Question: Who did Hans give his lump of gold to? Answer: the horseman
Context: In the middle of the night he woke, feeling that he had been disturbed, and putting his hand under his pillow found to his horror that his bag of money had been stolen. He jumped up quietly and began to prowl around to see whether anyone seemed to be awake, but, though he managed to arouse a few men and beasts by falling over them, he walked in the shadow of the archways round the whole serai without coming across a likely thief. Question: Why did Moti ask to ride the horse? Answer: He wanted to take revenge.
Context: Esben thought this neither fair nor just; for he had only done what he had been asked to do, and had defended himself as best he knew how. But the king said that this made no difference to him; yet if Esben could manage to fill the big brewing-cauldron till it ran over, he would spare his life. Question: What did Esben need to do if he wanted his life to be spared? Answer: fill the big brewing-cauldron till it ran over
Context: The compass, with its needle always pointing to the North, is quite a common thing. No matter how the chariot was placed the figure always wheeled about and pointed to the South. Question: What was invented in China? Answer: the shinansha
Context: The wind and weather were fair, and the ship went like an arrow over the sea. It was the first time they had ever been on the water, and so at first the dog, the monkey and the pheasant were frightened at the waves and the rolling of the vessel, but by degrees they grew accustomed to the water and were quite happy again. Question: What did Momotaro get to cross the sea? Answer: a small ship
Context: The moment his eye fell upon this jet black braid he was delighted. " He fixed his snare firmly on a spot just where the sun must strike the land as it rose above the earth. Question: Why were the animals immediately put into great commotion? Answer: They had no light.
Context: Just then another King's son passed by, carrying a great bag on his back. When the hare heard these kind words he felt very grateful to the man. The little animal hid nothing from his friend, but told him frankly how he had played a trick on the crocodiles and how he had come across the bridge they had made, thinking that he wished to count their number. Question: What made the hare feel grateful towards the man? Answer: The man was gentle.
Context: After a time the priest came by, and he was so old and decrepit that his wife and daughter led him. When the priest had been led to the pulpit he delivered what seemed to the listening schoolmaster a really fine and edifying sermon--but one, it appeared to him, of quite a peculiar trend of thought, which he was not always able to follow. Question: How did the pastor and his family treat the schoolmaster? Answer: kindly
Context: And as they were both very fond of the chase, Earl Gregory suggested one day that they should go a-hunting on the haunted moor, in spite of the Elfin King. It is ill meddling with unchancy things," he answered, "and it is no bairn's tale that travellers have set out to cross that moor who have vanished bodily, and never mair been heard of; but it is, as thou sayest, a pity that so much good sport be lost, all because an Elfin Knight choosest to claim the land as his, and make us mortals pay toll for the privilege of planting a foot upon it. Question: What did Sir Gregory plan to use to protect himself from the Elfin Knight? Answer: his good bow and arrow
Context: It was the rainy season at Nara, and floods were reported every day as doing damage in the neighborhood. An Imperial Edict was sent forth to all the Buddhist temples commanding the priests to offer up continuous prayers to Heaven to stop the noise of the flood. Question: What did the Imperial Edict command? Answer: priests to offer up continuous prayers to Heaven to stop the noise of the flood
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: Where did the Queen return to after she gave Thomas the gifts? Answer: Fairy-land
Context: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have. And if you are unhappy or in danger, tell the casket and it will set things right.' Question: Why were the mother and father in dismay after the girl asked for the ring and casket? Answer: The ring and the casket were the only things they did not want her to have.
Context: "I congratulate you on surrendering so soon," said Momotaro, smiling. " Question: How did the dog feel about the bird coming along? Answer: annoyed
Context: About a week passed by: then one day the Fox came into the cave, and flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted. "I doubt that no excuse would be accepted," answered the Fox, "for they asked me to stand god-father. Question: How did the Fox pretend that he was tired? Answer: flung himself down on the ground as if he were very much exhausted
Context: Prince Yamato Take at once offered to go and bring the newly arisen rebels into subjection. When the time came for the Prince to start, the King gave him a spear called the Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree (the handle was probably made from the wood of the holly tree), and ordered him to set out to subjugate the Eastern Barbarians as the Ainu were then called. Question: What did Prince Yamato Take offer to do? Answer: go and bring the newly arisen rebels into subjection
Context: His mother came to the door, clasped her hands together over her head, and nearly fainted with joy when she saw all the fine goods. And then she decorated her room, and she herself, in her old days, went about in such style that she might have been taken for some lady of distinction. Question: What was brought to the mother and son because of the wool? Answer: a small fortune
Context: The comrade swung himself up in back again, and the trip home did not take long. But this time the princess kept her nose in the air, and was so haughty and snappish that she hardly condescended to glance in the youth's direction. Question: How will the princess feel when the youth shows he has the shears? Answer: surprised
Context: Just outside the wood where she was now living lay a great corn-field. There the mouse lived warm and snug, with a store-room full of corn, a splendid kitchen and dining-room. Question: Why did poor little Thumbelina go up to the door and beg for a little piece of barley from the field mouse? Answer: She had not had anything to eat for the last two days.
Context: When they heard the voice coming from the coffin the other people suddenly stopped laughing, and stood as if they had been turned into stone. Then they rushed with one accord to the coffin, and lifted the lid so that the man could step out amongst them. Question: Who did the village decide as more foolish? Answer: They could not decide on it.
Context: He went over to the bed, and, stooping over the wounded Merman, washed and dressed the hurt as well as he could. The touch of his hands appeared to work like magic, for no sooner had he finished than the wound seemed to deaden and die, leaving only the scar. Question: How did the seal catcher feel while he thought about his life as a seal? Answer: worried
Context: My hunger is so great that my very inwards rattle, because I have had nothing to eat for the past two years!" " When we have gone a little further I will show you the place where the giants live," said the wolf. O no," was the wolf's reply, "when you go in you will find a princess, and she will tell you how to set about getting rid of the giant. Question: Who would tell the prince how to get rid of the giant? Answer: a princess
Context: 'As you have said so much you will have to say a little more,' retorted the old man, a suspicion of what she meant darting across him; and the woman, nothing loth, answered as before. No, it was over the river he rode, and across the hill and past the cottage of Miguel the vine-keeper, whose daughter, they say, is the prettiest girl in the whole country side, though she is too white for my taste,' and then the landlady paused again, and glanced up at the farmer, to see how he was taking it. Question: Who was the prettiest girl in the whole country side? Answer: Miguel's daughter
Context: He rushed out of his hill with a hunk of flint-rock in his fist. "And I will squash you till the water runs out, just as I squash this stone!" Question: How did the shepherd-lad use the fresh cheese to trick the giant? Answer: pretended the cheese was a rock
Context: The next time the fish swam by, she put out her hand and caught him. Then she ran along the grassy path till she came to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rocks into a basin. Now the girl did not tell her sisters about the fish, but every day she saved half of her rice to give him, and called him softly in a little song she had made for herself. Question: Why did the youngest sister grow thin? Answer: She saved part of her meals for her pet fish.
Context: Dschou Ling on his return told of this happening, and begged that
temples be erected in honor of the Queen of Heaven, and that she be
included in the list of the gods. Since then temples of the Queen of Heaven are to be found in all
sea-port towns, and her birthday is celebrated on the eighth day of
the fourth month with spectacles and sacrifices. Question: What did Dschou Ling do when he was told of this happening? Answer: begged that temples be erected in honor of the Queen of Heaven, and that she be included in the list of the gods
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: Where was the old man sitting? Answer: in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream
Context: said the farm laborer who emptied the bucket, when he saw the toad. " The sun shone through the leaves, which were quite transparent. Question: What happened to the toad when the farmer kicked it? Answer: It escaped being crushed by managing to scramble into the nettles.
Context: The boy from the tree had no more than time to escape, when the hunter entered, and found his son, sitting as usual, near the fire. My son," he said, "you must be very foolish when alone to play so. He, however, engaged his son to entice the boy to a dead tree, by the edge of a wood, where they could kill many flying-squirrels by setting it on fire. Question: Where did the hunter tell his son to entice the beautiful boy to? Answer: a dead tree by the edge of a wood
Context: When the dreams had sung their song they skipped away, and Nukku Matti carried Lasse back to the boat. The wind had turned, and the boat had drifted out with one wind and drifted in with another while Little Lasse slept, and what Lasse thought was frizzling in a frying-pan was the low murmur of the waves as they washed against the stones on the shore. Question: What did Nukku Matti do after the dreams sung their song? Answer: carried Lasse back to the boat
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: What did the poor man lift? Answer: quite a quantity of peat
Context: After a time he lay down on his back, and prepared to go to sleep. But just then the ring slipped down his throat, and he had to cough, so that the ring flew out and rolled along the ground. But in the meantime the king had caught the youth, and had had him put in a great tower and condemned to death, because he had made a mock of his daughter--so the king said. "I never eat more than I need," said the dog, "and just now I have eaten nothing at all, save a dead fish that was left here by the ebb-tide." Question: Why did the dog have a stomach ache? Answer: He ate a dead fish that had eaten the ring.
Context: On the third day he went to work again, and took along the third cart-load, lay down behind it, and pretended to be sleeping. Then a troll with seven heads came out of the hill, began to smack his lips, and eat of his provisions. Question: Why did Murmur pretend to sleep by his cart? Answer: to catch whoever was eating his provisions
Context: The house in which she dwelt was small and neat, but dreary to behold, for there were no flowers near it--no trees. There was also a little potato-field, very useful, and an earth bank, with sloe bushes upon it, which had done blossoming. Question: What stood beside the door? Answer: bee-hive
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: How was the younger brother's wife very greedy? Answer: However much she had, she always wanted more.
Context: But it is a woman's danger to be petty and mean, and step-mothers are proverbial all the world over, and this one's heart was not as her first smiles were. Instead of lessening his affection for his daughter, as the woman desired, her grumblings only made him think of her the more. Question: Why did the man not pay attention to the step-mother's complaints? Answer: He knew this was to be expected.
Context: Karen looked first at the black shoes, then at the red ones--looked at the red ones again, and put them on. And all the people inside looked at Karen's red shoes, and all the figures gazed at them; when Karen knelt before the altar and put the golden goblet to her mouth, she thought only of the red shoes. Question: Who stood at the church door? Answer: an old soldier
Context: When the cat had gone a bit further, she met the mother bear, who was clawing at the tree-stems so that the bark flew, so angry was she to have lost her little one. I have had no more than a dish of mush and a little potful of fat and the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush and the fox, the sly-boots, and the hopping hare and the wild wolf and the little bear brown-coat, and I'm thinking over whether I ought not to eat you as well," said she, and seized the mother bear and ate her, too. Question: Why was the mother bear angry? Answer: She lost her little one.
Context: I do not just know how many there were, but the youngest was not content at home. In the morning the giant wanted to go off to herd his goats, and when he started he told the king's son he was to clean the stable in the meantime. " Question: What was the king's son not to do? Answer: go into any of the rooms that lie behind the one in which he slept last night
Context: "If that is all you want, and if such a trifle is of any service to you, your wish shall be granted, for I believe I know the words by heart now," said the duke. Lasse thanked him, and said all the duke need do, would be to lay the paper on the chair beside his bed, when he went to sleep, and that he would fetch it during the night. Question: What will happen to all of the duke's possessions after giving Lasse the paper? Answer: His possessions will disappear.
Context: When they both reached the spot, the monkey was astonished to see what a fine tree had sprung from the seed, and with what a number of ripe persimmons the branches were loaded. Not one would he give to the poor hungry crab waiting below, and when he had finished there was little but the hard, unripe fruit left. Question: What did the monkey do when he saw the tree? Answer: climbed the tree and began to pluck and eat one persimmon after another
Context: But there was no one to whom the king could entrust his daughter while he was away at war. So he had a great tower built out in the forest, provided it with a plentiful store of supplies. Question: What did the king proclaim? Answer: Every man, no matter who he might be, was forbidden to approach the tower in which he had placed his daughter and the maid, under pain of death.
Context: For many days life went on like a beautiful dream to the charcoal-burner and his wife. But when his eyes rested on the woman, they took on a look which seemed to say 'I knew it,' though this neither the charcoal-burner nor his wife ever noticed. Question: Who was getting rosier and plumper each day? Answer: the charcoal burner
Context: It removed itself, and the old man added to Maidwa:  "My grandchild, feed yourself;" handing him at the same time a dish and ladle of the same ware as the pot itself. The young man, whose hunger was very great, helped himself to all that was in the pot. Question: Why did Maidwa feel ashamed? Answer: He helped himself to all that was in the pot.
Context: As she was busy washing her clothes a great peach came bumping down the stream. The old woman looked up from her work and saw this large peach. Question: What was special about the peach? Answer: It was unusually large.
Context: So they took him to be christened, and the parson said: 'You'll never be able to put that child in a decent bed on account of his prickles.' When the farmer came home he gave his wife and the maid the things they had asked for, and then he went behind the stove and gave Jack my Hedgehog the bagpipes. Question: Where did Jack my Hedgehog lay for eight years? Answer: behind the stove
Context: THERE were once upon a time a King and a Queen who lived happily together, and they had twelve children, all of whom were boys. Then he ordered twelve coffins to be made, and filled them with shavings, and placed a little pillow in each. Question: How many children did the King and Queen have? Answer: twelve
Context: I know, too, my imperfection, and I am well aware that in that very thing is seen my humility, my modesty. I spread abroad a blessing on thirsting mankind, for in me the Chinese leaves are brewed in the boiling, tasteless water." Question: why is the teapot the queen of the table? Answer: because it has a spout
Context: The two eldest were grown up, and though they were known to be idle fellows, some of the neighbours had given them work to do on account of the respect in which their mother was held. Pinkel,' they called him in scorn, and by-and-by 'Pinkel' became his name throughout the village. Question: How many sons did the widow have? Answer: three
Context: But all through the year Ness was working to keep the kingdom for him. She gave great presents to the chief men of Ulster to get them on her side. And in her sleep Lugh of the Long Hand appeared to her, and he said, "It is I myself was the mayfly that came to you in the cup, and it is with me you must come away now, and your fifty maidens along with you." Question: What did Dechtire drink with the wine? Answer: a mayfly
Context: We are not far from Africa'--and as he said that they were there. They anchored at the mouth of a great river where the shores were as green as the greenest velvet. Question: Why didn't Little Lasse want to land in Polynesia? Answer: He was worried about the tiger.
Context: Long, long ago there lived, in Japan a brave warrior known to all as Tawara Toda, or "My Lord Bag of Rice." His true name was Fujiwara Hidesato, and there is a very interesting story of how he came to change his name. Question: How many names did Tawara Toda have? Answer: three
Context: And as he was sitting there in the forward cabin, he heard voices within the ship. He peered through a crack, and there were three coal-black crows sitting inside the deck-beams, and they were talking about their husbands. Question: Who were pretending to be  crows? Answer: witches
Context: Well, when the princess woke in the morning, she missed her husband from her side, and spent the day very sadly. At last, one evening, when herself, and himself, and her child were sitting with a window open because it was a sultry night, in flew an eagle, took the infant's sash in his beak, and flew up in the air with him. Question: Who took the youngest princess's baby? Answer: an eagle
Context: "I have no doubt you are right, Brother Peepi," rejoined Gray Eagle. " thought his brother, who saw his success; but just as little Peepi was getting to land with his prize, up sailed a large white owl from a tree where he, too, had been watching, and laid claim to it. Question: Why did White Owl steal from Peepi? Answer: White Owl wanted someone else to find the food.
Context: Once upon a time there was a master mariner who had the most unheard of good fortune in all that he undertook; none had such splendid cargoes, and none earned so much money as he did, for everything seemed to come to him. Thus he sailed for many years with cargoes of lumber, and even went as far as China, and earned money like hay. Question: What was special about the master mariner? Answer: He had the most unheard of good fortune in all that he undertook
Context: After they had again wandered on for a few days, the comrade said: "Now we will soon reach the castle in which she lives, the princess of whom you dreamed, and when we reach it, you must go to the castle and tell the king what you dreamed, and your journey's aim." He told her, too, why he was there, and she replied that she liked him quite well, and would gladly take him, but first he must undergo three tests. Question: How did the king and the princess treat the youth? Answer: kindly
Context: "So the old fairy led her into the castle, and, though it was still the middle of the night, the Queen could see plainly that it was far more beautiful than she had been told, which you can easily believe, Prince," said the White Cat, "when I tell you that it was this castle that we are now in. ' And in an instant they came tumbling in one over another, and yet they were neither dusty nor spoilt, and the Queen found them quite as good as she had fancied them. Question: What did the old fairy do after the queen consented to give her little daughter away? Answer: led her into the castle
Context: The insignia of the great Japanese Empire is composed of three treasures which have been considered sacred, and guarded with jealous care from time immemorial. These are the Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata, the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami, and the Murakumo-no-Tsurugi or the Sword of Murakumo. Question: What were the three treasures? Answer: Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata, the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami, and the Murakumo-no-Tsurugi or the Sword of Murakumo
Context: Then she set to work to make the winter clothes for the three of them. Thus did the wife find consolation in work during the lonely days of her husband's absence. Question: What did the wife do while the husband was away? Answer: made winter clothes for the three of them
Context: The bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare looked at him to see what he would do now. Kintaro went from one tree to another that grew along the river bank. Question: How did the animals feel when they saw Kintaro pull out the tree? Answer: amazed
Context: While all this was taking place the monkey was congratulating himself (as the wicked often do before their punishment comes upon them) on all he had done so neatly. He found this kind of life, however, extremely dull, accustomed as he was to the free life of the woods, and at last he said:  "No one knows that it was I who killed the crab! Question: What did the monkey do because the crab's family would seek revenge? Answer: would not go out and kept himself at home for several days
Context: In spite of the child's homeliness, the women at first took a great deal of pleasure in him. Yes, they needed a workman, and the master told him to gather up the stones in the field. Question: What work was Murmur Goose-Egg given? Answer: gather up the stones in the field
Context: But, as he spoke, something cold touched him, and quickly he glanced down at his feet. Already the water had risen to his waist, and he found himself sitting easily upon it, while its surface reflected back the image of a black swan, one of many. Question: What happened to his feet? Answer: They turned into a bird's claws.
Context: Yet when she had lain down and put out the light, she saw a man come in and cast himself down in a corner. But first you must promise me that you will never speak to your mother alone; but only when others are present. Question: What would happen if the maiden spoke to her mother alone? Answer: She would make her and the bear both unhappy.
Context: Once upon a time a man named Hu-Wu-Bau, who lived near the Great Mountain, went walking there one day. The latter had a meal prepared for him and said: "I only sent for you to-day because I had heard you intended traveling to the West. Question: Where did Hu-Wu-Bau live? Answer: near the Great Mountain
Context: The black thong leaped from him, and it bound the giant until the two eyes were going out on his head with the squeezing and with the tightening it gave him, and the giant promised to give him anything at all; "but spare my life," says he. When he came home that night the coopers were not able to make enough of vessels for them to hold the quantity of milk that the cows had, and the pigs were not able to eat with the quantity of apples that they had eaten before that. Question: Why was no one going near the castle? Answer: There was fear on them.
Context: Then the troll humbly begged for his life, and said: "Dear Lillwacker, I will give you wergild for your brother, only bid your dogs be still, so that we may talk." At the same time the troll handed him three hairs from his head and added: "Lay one of these hairs on each of your dogs, and then they will soon be quiet." Question: Why did Lillwacker lay the hairs on the troll-dogs instead of his own? Answer: Lillwacker saw through the troll's cunning scheme.
Context: "Oh, mother," said Kintaro, "don't you know that I am the strongest? Next time you go, take this old man with you to the wrestling match. Question: How did Kintaro and his mother feel when they heard the voice from outside? Answer: startled
Context: Then a storm came on, and the wonderful paper crane got damp, crumpled up, and fell into the sea. Sentaro was all but paralyzed with fear now that he felt his end so near. Question: What did Sentaro think would happen when he saw the shark? Answer: He would be eaten.
Context: The rest of the Old Spirit seemed to have done him much good, for he was very cheerful; and, first putting his head forth from the window for a puff at a sand-hill, which was his prime luxury in a morning, he said to Wassamo, "Son-in-law, you have been very patient with our long absence from your company, and you shall be rewarded. When you get to your home-village, you must first go in alone. She went out immediately in search of her; they soon found her in the wood, and all the women in the village conducted her in honor to the lodge of her new relations. All were delighted to make the acquaintance of the old Sand-Spirit's daughter; and as they had heard that he was a magician and guardian of great power, the tobacco which he had sent for by his son-in-law, came in, in great abundance, with every visitor. Question: Why did the Old Spirit want Wassamo to leave his wife at a short distance from the lodge? Answer: He wanted Wassamo to be accepted first.
Context: "It is time to mount and ride, Thomas," she said, "if thou wouldst ever see the fair Castle of Ercildoune again." Thou spokest of seven long years, Lady," he exclaimed, "and I have been here but three days." Question: How did Thomas feel after the Queen told him he could leave? Answer: surprised
Context: Dschou Ling on his return told of this happening, and begged that
temples be erected in honor of the Queen of Heaven, and that she be
included in the list of the gods. Since then temples of the Queen of Heaven are to be found in all
sea-port towns, and her birthday is celebrated on the eighth day of
the fourth month with spectacles and sacrifices. Question: Where were the temples of the Queen of Heaven built? Answer: in all sea-port towns
Context: After some time had passed, the duke one evening heard the words:  "Is my master content now?" "I am well content," answered the duke, "for you have brought me all that I have." Question: What did Lasse want from the duke? Answer: little scrap of paper that the duke kept in the box
Context: A few hours later the farmer was aroused by the cries and groans of his wife. 'Well, perhaps you are right,' answered the farmer, 'but the sooner that fellow has his deserts, the better I shall be pleased,' and without more words he went to the stables and brought out a horse for himself and also the black Andalusian mare ridden by the rich man, while the poor brother, fearing more ill-treatment, started at once on foot. Question: How did the farmer feel after he believed the elder brother poisoned his wife? Answer: angry
Context: In the old days there lived in Kvam a marksman by the name of Per Gynt. Once, late in the fall, when the cattle had long since been driven down from the mountain pastures, Per Gynt decided to go up on the Fjoll again. Question: What dwelt in the forests? Answer: all sorts of beasts
Context: Late one evening he found himself in a big forest, without any idea as to where he might spend the night. But within the chest was another chest, and in that chest still another chest, and so it went, one always smaller than the other, until they were nothing but little boxes. Question: Why did the duke go through the trouble of opening all the little boxes? Answer: Whatever was hidden away so carefully must be something exceptionally beautiful, thought he.
Context: You are certainly a most clever sorcerer as well as a considerate compounder," and she held out her hand for the box. "My only fear," replied Dr. Daws, "is that I have made them too strong. Question: How did Claribel feel when she received the magic bonbons? Answer: happy
Context: As he went along he saw branches broken off and strewed behind, which guided him in his course; for these had been purposely cast along by the daughter. She immediately caught his eye, and knowing that it was her father come for her, she all at once appeared to relent in her heart, and, asking for the royal dipper, said to the king, "I will go and get you a drink of water." Question: Why did the daughter ask for the royal dipper? Answer: to get the king a drink of water
Context: For some years things went on as they were, and then the rich brother began to feel lonely, and thought to himself that he was getting older, and it was time for him to be married. Most people would have considered it a wretched place, and turned their backs on it as soon as they could, but this lady saw that by spending some money the houses could be made as splendid as they were originally intended to be, and she instantly resolved to get them for herself. Question: What did the younger brother do after he began to feel lonely? Answer: decided to get married
Context: You are not even like an ordinary man, for you are exceptionally idle. I will send you to the country of Perpetual Life, where death never comes-where the people live forever!" Question: What happens at the country of Perpetual life? Answer: death never comes
Context: The son had often heard tell of her, and one fall, when his parents had already come home from the mountain pasture, he put on his full uniform, saddled his service horse, thrust his pistols in the holsters, and thus rode up into the hills. When he rode toward the pasture, such a fire burned in the herdsman's hut that it lit up every road, and then he knew that the mountain folk were inside. Question: Who did the son see when he peeped through the window? Answer: an old man and woman
Context: On hearing that he was a seal catcher, he immediately ordered a great number of seal skins. But his face fell when the horseman added that it was absolutely necessary that the skins should be delivered that evening. Question: How did the seal catcher feel after the stranger made a large order? Answer: delighted
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. Sylvia was very unwilling to go away, but as the Fairy wished it she said nothing. Question: What was the chariot drawn by? Answer: butterflies
Context: All else that he learned in the abodes of the dead, and his travels and acts previous to his return homeward, are unknown, for he never spoke of them to any human being. Passing all the other lodges he came to his own door, where he found the magic arrow, as he had been promised. Question: How did Maidwa feel when he heard his brothers fighting? Answer: shameful
Context: "And as for the narrow road, all hampered and hindered by the thorns and the briars, there be few that be troubled to ask where that leadeth to. "And, mark'ee, Thomas, if ever thou hopest to see thine own Tower of Ercildoune again, take care of thy tongue when we reach our journey's end, and speak no single word to anyone save me--for the mortal who openeth his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever." Question: Why couldn't Thomas speak in Fairy-land? Answer: The mortals who open his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever.
Context: About two hundred years ago there was a poor man working as a laborer on a farm in Lanarkshire. Now this strip of moorland ran up at one end to a curiously shaped crag, known as Merlin's Crag, because, so the country folk said, that famous Enchanter had once taken up his abode there. Question: Why was the poor man startled by a woman? Answer: He was startled by the appearance of the very smallest woman that he had ever seen in his life.
Context: "Sister," said he, one day, as he paraded up and down before the lodge, enjoying his new coat, and fancifying himself the greatest little fellow in the world-as he was, for there was no other beside him-"My sister, are we really alone in the world, or are we playing at it? That if he would live blameless and not endanger his life, he must never go where they were. Question: Why did the boy go in the direction his sister warned him against? Answer: to see the world
Context: A coupling was put between me and the cradle, and when everyone went to sleep I was watching till the person woke who attended in the daytime; but I was there only two nights when, it was near the day, I saw the hand coming down through the chimney, and the hand was so big that it took round the child altogether, and thought to take him away. I went to the King, and took hold of him, and went back again, and began to tear at the door. The King took the hand, and ordered a woman to come for the child, and he showed the hand to everyone in the house. Question: What did the wolf see coming down through the chimney? Answer: the hand
Context: 'Dan,' says the eagle, 'I'm tired with this long fly; I had no notion it was so far.' ' Why, then, sure, I'd fall off in a minute, and be kilt and spilt, and smashed all to bits; you are a vile deceiver--so you are.' ' Question: What did the eagle tell Daniel to do until he rests himself? Answer: sit down on the moon
Context: Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had only one son; but one who was so lazy and clumsy that he did not want to do a stroke of work. " But at the end of the three years, his master was to go into town, two days in succession, and buy the first thing he saw, and on the third morning the youth himself was to go to town and also buy the first thing he met. Question: What conditions did the rich man have to take the youth as a servant? Answer: He was to work three years without pay.
Context: she had asked the Prince, one morning, as she was walking on the terrace. So at the end of the King's garden a great stand had been set up, and as soon as the Royal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place, the fireworks began to talk to each other. Question: What did the fireworks do after the Royal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place? Answer: began to talk to each other
Context: Hase-Hime listened in an attitude of respect while her mother spoke, and promised to do all that she was told. There is a proverb which says "As the soul is at three so it is at one hundred," and so Hase-Hime grew up as her mother had wished, a good and obedient little Princess, though she was now too young to understand how great was the loss of her mother. Question: Who was Princess Terute? Answer: a lady of noble birth
Context: "Don't stand there and laugh in such a stupid way," said the woman, "but come and help a poor, feeble old woman. He found it all very amusing, and said that if she had already been standing there a hundred years, then she could probably hold out for another hundred years or more. Question: How did the woman get stuck in the tree? Answer: She wanted to split up some fire-wood and caught her nose in there.
Context: The Emperor at last called a meeting of his courtiers and asked them all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life" of which he had so often read and heard. Certain hermits lived there who possessed the secret of the "Elixir of Life." Question: What was the water of perpetual life? Answer: "Elixir of Life"
Context: The insignia of the great Japanese Empire is composed of three treasures which have been considered sacred, and guarded with jealous care from time immemorial. These are the Yatano-no-Kagami or the Mirror of Yata, the Yasakami-no-Magatama or the Jewel of Yasakami, and the Murakumo-no-Tsurugi or the Sword of Murakumo. Question: What was the insignia of the great Japan made of? Answer: three treasures
Context: Yes, sure enough, just then a shaggy, reddish-brown wolf's head looked out from under the kiln! He certainly jumped on to Walter, but he only shook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face. Question: How was the wolf friendly? Answer: He certainly jumped on to Walter, but he only shook his coat and rubbed his nose against his face.
Context: The moccasins seemed to know his thoughts; for just then they gave a sudden leap, slipped away from his feet, and left the Owl flat upon his back! while they glided home by themselves, to the lodge of Onwee Bahmondang, where they belonged. Question: Why did Ko-ko run away into the woods? Answer: He was a coward.
Context: By good luck the lodge was well supplied with meats of various kinds; the woman thought to please him by handing him these, which were savory and carefully prepared. Withal his hunger did not seem to be staid, for he took up the deer which the hunter had brought in, and devoured it eagerly, leaving the family to make their meal of the dried meats which had been reserved in the lodge. Question: Where did the Weendigo go to hunt? Answer: toward the North
Context: But to his great surprise, instead of seeing it droop its neck and drift to the shore, the Red Swan flapped its wings, rose slowly, and flew off with a majestic motion toward the falling sun. He sped on, over hills and prairies, toward the west, and was only going to take one more run, and then seek a place to sleep for the night, when, suddenly, he heard noises at a distance, like the murmur of waters against the shore. Question: What were the people doing when Maidwa saw them? Answer: felling trees
Context: He sat there with her all day long, for they had soon agreed that they would marry, he and the king's daughter, and in this way his first day in the giant's service did not weary him at all. When he got there he thought he would try out her advice, and began to use the shovel as he had seen his father's grooms use it. Question: What happened when the king's son used the shovel as he had seen his father's grooms use it? Answer: He had to stop quickly, for after he had worked a little while, he hardly had room to stand.
Context: At last he went out, but nothing could be seen or heard of the captive daughter. It would be a mortal shame, thought the king, to be outstripped by a man with one leg tied up; so, shouting and cheering, and issuing orders on all sides, he set the swiftest of his herd upon the track, with strict commands to take Aggo dead or alive. Question: Who did the king espy by the light of the moon? Answer: Aggo Dah Gauda with his daughter in his arms
Context: The birds set up a clamorous cry, and the mantle shook violently as all the scalps burst into a hideous shout of laughter. Now Hah-Undo-Tah, or the Red Head, was a most powerful sorcerer, living upon an island in the centre of his realm of water, and he was the terror of all the country. Question: What did the witch do to Strong Desire? Answer: dressed him as a female, furnishing him with the necessary garments, and tinting his face with colors of the most charming dye
Context: "There it comes again, from the other side," said the Snow Man, who supposed the sun was showing himself once more. " If I could, I would slide along yonder on the ice, as I have seen the boys do. Question: What will make the Snow Man run some day? Answer: the sun
Context: I must thank you for coming to visit me: I have been expecting you for a long time. I am to receive a large dower, and am not yet ready for the wedding. Question: How will the youth feel about the food provided by the rat? Answer: unsure
Context: There was once a rich old man who had two sons, and as his wife was dead, the elder lived with him, and helped him to look after his property. While he was waiting in the hall, the landlady came up for a gossip, and after a few remarks about the weather and the vineyards she asked him how he liked his new daughter-in-law, and whether he had been surprised at the marriage. Question: How did the old man feel after the landlady asked about his daughter-in-law? Answer: confused
Context: Looking round and admiring the scenery, he noticed a tiny house on one of the hills quite near, and then he distinctly heard a beautiful clear voice reading aloud. She was so intent on what she was saying that she neither heard nor saw her father till he spoke. Question: Why did Prince Toyonari approach the cottage? Answer: He distinctly heard a beautiful clear voice reading aloud.
Context: Sentaro had often heard the tale of the Chinese King named Shin-no-Shiko. Ah-if only he could find the "Elixir of Life," he would be happy. Question: How did the thought of death make Shin-no-Shiko feel? Answer: miserable
Context: It seemed a very long time to her to wait till her husband returned. He seemed very tired and used the scythe for a walking stick, leaning on it as he walked along. Question: When did the man return? Answer: as the sun was setting
Context: It was about a year after that time there was another feast in Emain, and Conchubar and his chief men were sitting at the feast. Conchubar was in his own chariot, and there were following with him Fergus, son of Rogh, and Laegaire Buadach the Battle-Winner, and Celthair, son of Uithecar, and many others, and Bricriu of the bitter tongue was along with them. Question: What did Conchubar and his chief men see from the window? Answer: a great flock of birds
Context: In an instant the revelry ceased, and the Fairies, with cries of alarm, crowded together and rushed towards the Crag, dragging the countryman along in their midst. As they reached the rock, a mysterious door, which he never remembered having seen before, opened in it of its own accord, and shut again with a crash as soon as the Fairy Host had all trooped through. Question: Why didn't the poor man try to escape from the Fairies? Answer: He was put under a spell.
Context: So the slave hastened to the king's palace and gave his message, which troubled both the king and the queen greatly. Now the prince had pretended to be ill in order to soften his parent's hearts, and the next day he declared he felt better, and, getting into his litter, was carried to the palace in state, drums being beaten all along the road. Question: What did the prince declare the next day? Answer: He felt better.
Context: The old servant Katoda was rewarded with the highest promotion in his master's service. Hase-Hime lived to a good old age, and all said that she was the wisest, most devout, and most beautiful mistress that had ever reigned in Prince Toyonari's ancient house. Question: Who was adopted and married to Hase-Hime? Answer: a younger son of one of the Court nobles
Context: "O illustrious prince, though it is not right for a guest to even seem to observe aught that may be awry, or not as it should be, in the hall of his entertainer, yet the sorrow of a kindly host is a sorrow, too, to his guest, and sometimes unawares the man of the house finds succour and help in the stranger. But I say it, and it is not a vain boast, that even if a person is at the point of death, I can restore him to life and health, for there are marvellous powers of life-giving in my two hands." Question: What could Finn do if a person was at the point of death? Answer: restore him to life and health
Context: She was such a dainty little creature that the astonished countryman stopped working, stuck his spade into the ground, and gazed at her in wonder. Now the poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them, so in fear and trembling he set to work to undo all his labour, and to place every divot in the exact spot from which he had taken it. Question: Why did the poor man listen to the small woman? Answer: The poor man had often heard of the Fairy Folk and of the harm that they could work to unthinking mortals who offended them.
Context: On another occasion, in the days of Kien Lung, the minister Dschou
Ling was ordered to install a new king in the Liu-Kiu Islands. When
the fleet was sailing by south of Korea, a storm arose, and his ship
was driven toward the Black Whirlpool. Question: How did the seamen feel when red lanterns appeared on the surface of the water? Answer: overjoyed
Context: The children looked round wonderingly, and saw a little kind-looking old man, in a white coat and a red cap, limping out from among the bushes, for he was lame in his left foot; neither Lisa nor Aina could utter a word, they were so filled with surprise. 'Yes, indeed we have,' said both the girls, 'but tell us...' and they wanted to ask who the old man was, but were afraid to. Question: Who was in a white coat and a red cap, limping out from among the bushes? Answer: a little kind-looking old man
Context: The ould gander, who was their general, turning about his head, cried out to me, 'Is that you, Dan?' ' Sweet is your hand in a pitcher of honey, my jewel,' says I, though all the time I thought within myself that I don't much trust you; but there was no help, so I caught the gander by the leg, and away I and the other geese flew after him as fast as hops. Question: Why did Daniel agree to the gander's help? Answer: There was no help.
Context: 'Shall I go back and say that I struck one wolf and it escaped?' But it sounded horrid, and an echo came out from the kiln that seemed almost like the howl of a wolf. Question: How did Walter feel after he went near the kiln? Answer: scared
Context: The seal catcher was now thoroughly frightened, for he felt sure that some evil was about to befall him. And it seemed as if his fears would prove only too true, for the next moment the stranger's hand was laid upon his shoulder. He was still more aghast when he caught sight of himself in a large mirror that hung on the wall, and saw that he also no longer bore the likeness of a man, but was transformed into a nice, hairy, brown seal. Question: What happened after the seal catcher was pushed into the sea? Answer: Instead of being choked by the water, he could breathe quite easily. He and his companion, who was still close at his side, seemed to be sinking as quickly down through the sea as they had flown through the air.
Context: As soon as Jack had read this he seized the trumpet and blew a shrill blast, which made the gates fly open and the very castle itself tremble. Jack, with his sword of sharpness, soon killed the giant, and the magician was then carried away by a whirlwind; and every knight and beautiful lady who had been changed into birds and beasts returned to their proper shapes. Question: Why did Jack blow the trumpet? Answer: to cause the giant's overthrow
Context: When he got back, he showed the arm to his comrades, who one and all called him the hero of their band and gave him a great feast. He felt sure that one day or other, as soon as the ogre got over his scare, he would come to try to get his arm back again. Question: What did Watanabe have a box made of? Answer: the strongest wood and banded with iron
Context: While these things were passing, there were living in an Indian village at some distance, two sisters, the daughters of a chief, who were rivals, and they were at that very time fasting to acquire power, for the purpose of enticing the wearer of the white feather to visit their lodge. The eldest sister had prepared her lodge with great show, and all the finery she could command, so as to attract the eye. Question: What did the two sisters do to engage White Feather's affections? Answer: Each built a lodge in the border of the village encampment.
Context: 'When thy wife came home,' answered the farmer, 'she saw the pack-saddle over her head. He went off to the kitchen to get some supper, leaving them to cry as long as they liked. Question: Why did the young man go in the stable? Answer: No one came back.
Context: The first time he came to earth he was the Yellow Lord, who taught mankind all sorts of arts. At the beginning of the reign of the Han dynasty, he again appeared as the Old Man of the River, (Ho Schang Gung). Question: What will happen when the Yellow Ancient flies up to the radiant sun? Answer: He will be born again as Li Oerl.
Context: Duchess went home and brushed her beautiful black coat; and then she picked a bunch of flowers in her garden as a present for Ribby; and passed the time until the clock struck four. She peeped again into the BOTTOM oven, the pie had become a lovely brown, and it was steaming hot. Question: Why was Ribby glad that she used the bottom over? Answer: The top one would certainly have been very much too hot.
Context: She opened the door of the TOP oven;--out came a rich steamy flavour of veal and ham, and there stood a fine brown pie,--and through a hole in the top of the pie-crust there was a glimpse of a little tin patty-pan! Duchess drew a long breath--  "Then I must have been eating MOUSE!... "I think I should feel QUITE well if he only felt my pulse," said Duchess, backing away from the magpie, who sidled up with something in his beak. Do you not think that I had better go home before it gets dark?" " Question: What does the doctor recommend Duchess to take? Answer: a bread pill
Context: She took her by the hand and led her to a large door standing open, and as she was passing through it there fell upon her a heavy shower of gold, and the gold hung all about her, so that she was covered with it. And then the door was shut again, and the girl found herself back again in the world, not far from her mother's house; and as she passed through the yard the cock stood on the top of the well and cried,      "Cock-a-doodle doo! Question: What fell when the girl walked through the door? Answer: a shower of gold
Context: "There it comes again, from the other side," said the Snow Man, who supposed the sun was showing himself once more. " If I could, I would slide along yonder on the ice, as I have seen the boys do. Question: What did the Snow Man wish he could do? Answer: move away from that place
Context: Otto felt rather ashamed: he quite understood what it meant, but he thought that the old man's revenge was a noble one. The raspberry king had also remembered the big sister, for when she went in to set the table for dinner, she found eleven big baskets of most beautiful raspberries, and no one knew how they had come there, but everyone guessed. Question: Who gave the big sister the big baskets of raspberries? Answer: the old man
Context: He began to feel hungry, so he opened his bag and took out one of the rice-cakes and sat down under a tree by the side of the road to eat it. If you leave me all the cakes you have in your bag you may go; otherwise I will bite you till I kill you!" Question: Who came running out from the high grass? Answer: a dog
Context: 'The town is easy to get into, but more difficult to get out of,' sighed Hyacinthia. ' The first day passed, and then the second, and at last the third also, but Prince Milan did not return, for he had not taken Hyacinthia's advice. Question: What did the Prince do when he saw the child? Answer: bent down and kissed it on the cheek
Context: The king and queen and the princess, too, stood in the hall-way, and wondered what sort of a fellow this was, who could herd hares without losing a single one. But while he lay in all comfort beside a strawberry patch, they sent out the chamber-maid from the castle to him, and she was to find out how he managed to herd the king's hares. Question: How did the king, queen, and princess feel when they saw Esben return with the hares? Answer: surprised
Context: An old man had an only son, named Iadilla, who had come to that age which is thought to be most proper to make the long and final fast which is to secure through life a guardian genius or spirit. To accomplish his wish, he thought it necessary that the young Iadilla should fast a much longer time than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom, whose fame he coveted. Question: Why did the old man think it was necessary to make Iadilla fast much longer than any of those renowned for their power or wisdom? Answer: The old man wanted to accomplish his wish.
Context: I see that you can no longer live without me, and I thank you. At times he had to crawl, at others he had to stoop, for the way was very narrow. But when it grew better, he walked in advance, and looked about to see how he might most easily steal away and make off. Question: What happened after the rat whistled? Answer: Every corner was alive with swarms of mice and small rats, and six large rats came dragging along a frying-pan.
Context: Yes," said the man, "for I have to buy the first thing that comes my way." " I don't even know whether I ought to show it to you; but I bought the first thing to be had, and that was a pup," said he. " Question: What was the youth doing when the man got home from his journey? Answer: wondering what his wage for the first year might be
Context: The Prince having thus successfully put an end to his father's enemies in the world, was prepared to return to the capital. This he purposedly buckled to his side and wore on every occasion when he expected to meet the third robber Takeru. Question: Who was Idzumo Takeru? Answer: outlaw
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: What did the old man do as soon as the sun rose? Answer: sent a messenger into the great city with orders to bring back the younger brother
Context: She then gave little spirit his dish, and he commenced eating. One of the brothers presented his face at this little window, and rolled his eye about at the boy-man in a very threatening way. Little spirit fired his arrow--the man fell--he called out "Number two," and continued his meal. Question: What did the boy use to kill the men? Answer: bow and arrows
Context: After Wassamo had been among these curious people several months, the old Sand-Spirit said to him, "Son-in-law, you must not be surprised at what you will see next; for since you have been with us you have never known us to go to sleep. It has been summer when the sun never sets here where we live. I have sure knowledge that that knavish Island Spirit is on the prowl, and as he has command of a particular kind of storm, which comes from the south-west, he only waits his opportunity to catch you abroad and do you a mischief. The reason is this: that noise which you fancy is thunder, is our enemy the Island Spirit hallooing on his way home from the hunt. Question: What did the Sand-Spirits do after he heard a loud rattling of thunder? Answer: vanished out of sight
Context: Now once, at the time of the hay harvest, he was home at Baekkjen, and had lain down to take a little after-dinner nap under the penthouse. And he was taken into the hill, which happened in the following way: A man with a pair of gilded goat's horns came along and butted Ola, but Ola fell upon him so that the man had to duck back, again and again. Question: Where was Ola taken? Answer: into the hill
Context: The Prince of the Dragon Cave was especially desirous of testing Aduan. So Aduan danced alone, and he danced with joy or defiance according to the music. Question: What did the Dragon Prince give Aduan? Answer: a garment of five colors and a carbuncle set in golden threads of fish-beard for a hair-jewel
Context: Well, it was all mighty good as long as the King had his health. So, in course o' time, the goose was the greatest pet in the country, and the biggest rogue, and distracted the King to no end. Then it was that the poor King was lost completely, and didn't know what in the wide world to do. Question: How did the king feel when the goose grew old and stiff? Answer: broken-hearted
Context: "We have also some near relations in the home of the potatoes, but higher towards the north than they grew," said the Sloes. " There were Northmen, from Norway, who steered westward through mist and storm to an unknown land, where, behind ice and snow, they found plants and green meadows, and bushes with blue-black grapes--sloe bushes. Question: Why were the lands named "wine-land", or "Groenland" or "Sloeland"? Answer: because there were bushes with blue-black grapes -- sloe bushes -- near where the potatoes grew
Context: "What is the use of all my capabilities," sighed the old lamp, "when I cannot obtain any wax lights? The larger pieces were burned, and the smaller ones the old woman kept for waxing her thread. Question: What showed up in the cellar one day? Answer: wax candles ends
Context: But the spiritual part of Notscha, his soul, fluttered about in the air, and was driven by the wind to the cave of the Great One. It is because you are always thinking of him that he appears to you in dreams. Question: What did Notscha's mother have to do to bring Nostcha back as a human? Answer: must build a shrine for Notscha on a green mountain cliff
Context: When it was morning, and the children had got up, the Tin-soldier was put in the window; and whether it was the wind or the little black imp, I don't know, but all at once the window flew open and out fell the little Tin-soldier, head over heels, from the third-storey window! they must have found him; but he did not think it fitting for him to cry out, because he had on his uniform. Question: Why did the Tin-soldier land on his head with his leg in the air? Answer: The window flew open and out fell the little Tin-soldier, head over heels, from the third-story window.
Context: The tree, at this bidding, rose up so far that Owasso would have imperiled his neck by any attempt to get to the ground. So saying, the old magician, according to his custom in such cases, turned his back upon Owasso. his father-in-law, the old magician who had just left them, had sent him up. The old eagle, who appeared to be the head of the tribe, was so pleased with this show of spirit that he immediately appointed two tall birds, uncommonly strong in the wings, to transport Owasso to his lodge. Question: How will Owasso feel when the old eagle helps him? Answer: thankful
Context: Then I used to lie in a velvet-covered chair, up at the master's house, and sit in the mistress's lap. They used to kiss my nose, and wipe my paws with an embroidered handkerchief, and I was called 'Ami, dear Ami, sweet Ami.' Question: Where was the yard-dog sent away to when he grew too big? Answer: the housekeeper's room
Context: You can see how many soldiers I have, and if the king chooses to listen to me, we can agree to become friends, I will aid him against all his enemies, and what we undertake will succeed." And the more they brought the king's officers to eat, the stronger they inclined to the opinion that the king's daughter would make a good wife for the duke. Question: What happened because the captain was pleased with the duke's proposal? Answer: The duke invited the captain to the castle together with all his officers, and his soldiers were given a swallow or two of something wet and plenty to eat along with it.
Context: When the mouse had made up her fire and drawn water, she went to rest in her little room until it was time to lay the cloth. The sausage stayed by the saucepans, looked to it that the victuals were well cooked, and just before dinner-time he stirred the broth or the stew three or four times well round himself, so as to enrich and season and flavour it. Question: Why did the sausage stir the broth? Answer: to enrish and season and flavour it
Context: Now it chanced one day, as the king's daughter was sitting alone in her room, that she thought she would go herself into the forest where the prince had disappeared. But the queen had the last word in the end, and ordered that one of her daughters must accompany the princess, even though it be against her will. Question: What happened because the princess begged the queen so winningly? Answer: The queen was unable to say no.
Context: With that she took her golden armlet from her arm and laid it on the aching place. Then she took a small red pellet from her mouth, and laid it on the wound, and when she turned around in a circle, it seemed to Kung as though she drew out all the inflammation in steam and flames. Question: What did Giauna do to save Kung? Answer: cut away the diseased flesh
Context: The father coming in the evening to visit the lodge of his daughters, discovered what had happened. He immediately sent word to his son that his sisters had been slain, and that there were no more spoils to be had, which greatly inflamed the young man's temper, especially the woeful announcement at the close. Question: What would happen if the brother tasted food before he succeeded? Answer: The brother's power would be destroyed.
Context: Suddenly the sea-troll rose from the deeps, setting the waves whirling and foaming far and near. Then Silverwhite drew his sword with a great sweep, rushed upon the sea-troll, and gave him such a tremendous blow that the monster's head rolled on the sand. Question: How did the sea-troll feel when he saw Silverwhite? Answer: angry
Context: I suppose I will have to go to him myself if we really are to obtain this trumpery whistle. And the following day, when Esben was once more herding his hares, the king followed him, and found him at the same place where the women had bargained with him. Question: What did the king offer in exchange for the whistle? Answer: a thousand dollars
Context: "This I can give thee," she said, "and I do it gladly, for these apples are the Apples of Truth; and whoso eateth them gaineth this reward, that his lips will never more be able to frame a lie." Thomas took the apple, and ate it; and for evermore the Grace of Truth rested on his lips; and that is why, in after years, men called him "True Thomas." Question: Why did men call Thomas as True Thomas? Answer: The Grace of Truth rested on his lips.
Context: She looked until it came near, when she perceived that it was another Weendigo or Giant Cannibal. The son pointed in the direction the Weendigo had taken, and as the father hurried along he found the remains of his wife strewn upon the ground. Question: How will the hunter feel when he realizes his wife is dead? Answer: angry
Context: Presently it chanced that one who was there among the young men, espied in the hands of Leelinau, who had plucked it indifferently, one of the crooked kind, and at once the word "Wa-ge-min!" exclaimed the young man, Iagoo by name, and famous in the tribe for his mirthful powers of story-telling; "see you not the old man stooping as he enters the field? Question: What did a young man do when Leelinau picked a crooked kind of corn? Answer: shouted "Wa-ge-min!"
Context: PETER sat down to rest; he was out of breath and trembling with fright, and he had not the least idea which way to go. After a time he began to wander about, going lippity--lippity--not very fast, and looking all around. Question: Why wasn't the old mouse able to answer? Answer: She had such a large pea in her mouth that she could not answer.
Context: The bracket bull used to be the first one of the cattle that used to come in every night, and the stepmother sent for two butchers, and she set them on each side of the gate to kill the bracket bull when he would come. The bull sent the cow out before him, going through the gate, and they killed her. Question: How can the bracket bull be saved? Answer: another cow goes before him
Context: After him came a great throng
of footmen and horsemen, several hundred in all. And the
hunting dogs climbed on the bed, and sniffed along the walls trailing
the fleas, and ate them up. Question: How did the hunting dogs kill nearly all the vermin in a short space of time? Answer: followed the trace of whatever hid in the cracks, and nosed it out
Context: Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest she could get, and brought it to her godmother, not being able to imagine how this pumpkin could make her go to the ball. Her godmother scooped out all the inside of it, having left nothing but the rind; which done, she struck it with her wand, and the pumpkin was instantly turned into a fine coach, gilded all over with gold. Question: What did the godmother do after Cinderella brought a pumpkin to her? Answer: scooped out all the inside of it, having left nothing but the rind; which done, she struck it with her wand, and the pumpkin was instantly turned into a fine coach, gilded all over with gold
Context: "Well, whether you be crooked or straight, you will have to let me pass," said Per Gynt. And no matter where he took hold or where he set his foot, he could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him. Question: What happened wherever Per Gynt took hold or set his foot? Answer: He could feel the coils of the crooked one laid around him.
Context: It generally happens that people's surroundings reflect more or less accurately their minds and dispositions. For the Fairy herself was so kind and charming that everybody loved her. All the young princes and princesses who formed her court, were as happy as the day was long, simply because they were near her. She never tells anyone, however, that it was your gift, though she often speaks of your kindness in general. In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: Why did all of the things in Iris become different when Iris lost her beauty? Answer: It generally happened that people's surroundings reflected more or less accurately their minds and dispositions.
Context: The palace of the Magician was all hewn out of a single carbuncle, lighting up the whole surrounding region, and Prince Milan walked into it gaily. As soon as Prince Milan entered he flung himself on his knees. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. Question: What was the Prince assigned to build? Answer: a palace to-night, the roof of purest gold, the walls of marble, and the windows of crystal
Context: When Mr. McGregor returned about half an hour later, he observed several things which perplexed him. Also he could not understand how the cat could have managed to shut herself up INSIDE the green-house, locking the door upon the OUTSIDE. Question: What did old Mrs. Rabbit do with the onions? Answer: Old Mrs. Rabbit strung up the onions and hung them rom the kitchen ceiling, with the rabbit-tobacco.
Context: After they were covered up, the boy-man, looking sharply about, saw that among them they had caught one large trout, which was lying just by their side. When they stood up they could just see, over the fish's head, that it was the boy-man who was carrying it off. Question: What happened after the boy left the trout at the door? Answer: The boy told his sister to go out and bring in the fish he had brought home.
Context: Then Kintaro and the woodcutter both put out their right arms and grasped each other's hands. Then he turned to Kintaro's mother: "And you, mother, have you no thought of taking your child to the Capital, and of teaching him to carry a sword as befits a samurai (a Japanese knight)?" I have often wished that I could, one day, see my boy a knight wearing two swords. Question: Why did the woodcutter think Kintaro would make a good samurai? Answer: Kintaro was very strong.
Context: "There," said he, as she sunk in the stream, "you would ever do what was forbidden. The family of the hunter, grateful for his generous help, adopted the bird as their family emblem or mark, and under the guardianship of the Crane that Crossed the River, they prospered, with days of plenty and nights of peace. Question: What did the family of the hunter do after the crane helped them? Answer: adopted the bird as their family emblem or mark
Context: The Fairy smiled at Sylvia's unfeigned disgust at her late experience. The longer I stayed the more I saw that Cynthia was not really happy. In her desire to please everyone she ceased to be sincere, and degenerated into a mere coquette. Question: How did Sylvia feel returning from Princess Cynthia's court? Answer: joy
Context: Changed, but the same, with ghastly looks and arms that were withered, she appeared to her sons as they returned from the hunt, in the twilight, in the close of the day. She was a terror to all their lives, and she made every spot where they had seen her, hideous to the living eye; so that after being long buffeted and beset, they at last resolved, together with their father, now stricken in years, to leave the country. The skull too advanced toward it, and when they looked again, lo! They now might well be in extreme fear, for they knew not how to escape her. Question: Who was the skull and headless body? Answer: the mother
Context: FAR, far from here, in a great forest, there once lived a poor couple. The following day the man set out again; but no one wanted to be the god-father if he had to pay for the christening himself. When he went home that evening, he again met the lovely lady, who looked so gentle, and she made him the same offer as before. Question: Who came with the lady to the man's hut? Answer: two other men
Context: Now it happened one day that all the paper in the tub was taken out and laid on the hearth to be burned. The children in the house stood round the hearth to watch the blaze, for paper always flamed up so prettily, and afterwards, among the ashes, there were so many red sparks to be seen running one after the other, here and there, as quick as the wind. Question: What did the children do when they saw the fire? Answer: stood around to watch
Context: What did Mr. Jackson do to remove the bees? Question: pulled out the bees nest Answer: tale-of-mrs.tittlemouse
Context: Now once, at the time of the hay harvest, he was home at Baekkjen, and had lain down to take a little after-dinner nap under the penthouse. And he was taken into the hill, which happened in the following way: A man with a pair of gilded goat's horns came along and butted Ola, but Ola fell upon him so that the man had to duck back, again and again. Question: Where was Ola's home? Answer: Baekkjen
Context: 'I will tell you who I am,' said the old man; 'I am the raspberry king, who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and I have lived here for more than a thousand years. Now yesterday was just my transformation day, and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to death if you had not saved my life. Question: Why wasn't the raspberry king trampled to death when he was a worm? Answer: The siblings saved him.
Context: Long before this speech was ended the young man had turned to the quarter from which the voice proceeded, and he was astonished to behold a man; for as yet he had never seen any human being beside his grandfather. He returned home; slept; in the midst of his slumbers, as from the hollow of the air, heard the voice; wakened and found the promised gifts. Question: What happened after the boy advanced to the spot whence the voice-spirit had addressed him? Answer: The voice-spirit was gone.
Context: Jack next took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore, and went into the castle again. He then very politely gave them the keys of the castle, and went further on his journey to Wales. Question: Who did Jack find searching through all the rooms? Answer: three ladies tied up by the hair of the heads almost starved to death
Context: 'Now, don't be so foolish, my dear Prince; but keep up your spirits, for there is no need to despair. You must walk past them three times, and the third time you must show me which is my youngest daughter Hyacinthia. Question: How did the Prince feel when Hyacinthia offer to build the palace? Answer: hopeful
Context: You have long been their victim, but you shall be their victim no more. Ascend, my son; ascend into the skies, and partake of the feast I have prepared for you in the stars, and bring with you those you love. Question: How will Osseo feel about living in the stars? Answer: amazed
Context: JEREMY put on a macintosh, and a pair of shiny goloshes; he took his rod and basket, and set off with enormous hops to the place where he kept his boat. His rod was a tough stalk of grass, his line was a fine long white horse-hair, and he tied a little wriggling worm at the end. Question: What was the boat like? Answer: The boat was round and green, and very like the other lily-leaves.
Context: The lamp, however, was always kept clean and shining in a corner, where it attracted all eyes. One day--it was the watchman's birthday--the old woman approached the lamp, smiling to herself, and said, "I will have an illumination to-day, in honor of my old man." Question: Did the old people feel love or hate for the lamp? Answer: love
Context: Years flew by, and every morning Uraschimataro sailed his boat into the deep sea. But one day as he was making for a little bay between some rocks, there arose a fierce whirlwind, which shattered his boat to pieces, and she was sucked under by the waves. Question: How did Uraschimataro feel when he struggled hard to reach the shore? Answer: scared
Context: Then he blew himself up, and made himself so large and thick that he was quite horrible to look at. Gradually the North Wind grew weary, and became weaker and weaker. Question: What happened everywhere beneath them as they rushed through the air? Answer: raged such a storm that forests were pulled out by the roots, and houses torn down.
Context: But the seal catcher only laughed at them, and said that those seals were most worth killing. The seal catcher, much annoyed at his clumsiness, and also at the loss of his knife, went home to dinner in a very downcast frame of mind. Question: Why did the man want to catch the larger seals? Answer: Their skins were so big that he got an extra price for them.
Context: The Eight-Arms-Length-Spear of the Holly Tree of those old days, was prized by warriors just as much as the Standard or Banner is valued by a regiment in these modern days, when given by the King to his soldiers on the occasion of setting out for war. On his way he visited first of all the temples of Ise for worship, and his aunt the Princess of Yamato and High Priestess came out to greet him. Question: Who did the Prince visit before leaving? Answer: his aunt the Princess of Yamato and High Priestess
Context: And the King was astonished at her, and he began to ask her questions, for it seemed to him that the power of a great goddess of the ancient time was in her; and he asked her whence she came, and what manner was the power that he saw in her. He asked her, too, did she believe in the God of the clerics, or was she herself some goddess of the older world? Question: Why did Sheen laugh a careless and cruel laugh? Answer: She knew that the King was in their power, now that she was there alone with him, and the clerics and the Christian teachers gone.
Context: cried Earl St. Clair eagerly, "ere he taketh on him the Elfin shape? "There is something that thou couldst do, Sir Earl," whispered the Goblin, "but to essay it were a desperate attempt. Question: What did Earl St. Clair need to do after he walked slowly nine times? Answer: walk boldly across it to the red marble table where sits the Elfin King
Context: After a time the priest came by, and he was so old and decrepit that his wife and daughter led him. When the priest had been led to the pulpit he delivered what seemed to the listening schoolmaster a really fine and edifying sermon--but one, it appeared to him, of quite a peculiar trend of thought, which he was not always able to follow. Question: What did the priest, wife, and daughter do when they saw the schoolmaster? Answer: stopped and invited him to come to church and hear mass
Context: He mused upon the absence of Wassamo with a sorely-troubled heart. " Although," he said to himself, "his parents are my kindred, and they are well assured that their son is my bosom-friend, will they receive that belief in the place of him who is lost. Question: What happened to the cousin's other hopes after he found himself alone by the hunting-fire? Answer: They all died away in the morning light.
Context: TOM THUMB and Hunca Munca went up-stairs and peeped into the dining-room. "It's as hard as the hams at the cheesemonger's," said Hunca Munca. Question: What was laid upon the table? Answer: a lovely dinner
Context: The woodcutter, for such he seemed to be by his dress, marveled at all he saw, and said to himself:  "This is no ordinary child. "I took my four friends, the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare, up into the hills. Question: Why was Kintaro's mother waiting for him? Answer: He was gone for a long time.
Context: He pulled the deer's foot, and immediately a silver bell sounded and the door flew open, but the Prince could see nothing but numbers of hands in the air, each holding a torch. He was so much surprised that he stood quite still, until he felt himself pushed forward by other hands, so that, though he was somewhat uneasy, he could not help going on. Question: What place did the prince enter after a silver bell sounded and the door flew open? Answer: a hall paved with lapis-lazuli
Context: Once the schoolmaster of Etnedal was staying in the mountains to fish. One Sunday morning, as he was lying there reading, it seemed as though he could hear church bells; sometimes they sounded faintly, as though from a great distance; at other times the sound was clear, as though carried by the wind. Question: What was the schoolmaster of Etnedal doing to fish? Answer: staying in the mountains
Context: nan Question: nan Answer: nan
Context: Now the king knew nothing about fruits except that they were good to eat; and, as for seasons, he asked for whatever fruit he wanted whenever he wanted it, and saw that he got it; so to him Moti's guess was like a miracle, and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence, for it was a pomegranate that he had put into the box. Of course when the king marvelled and praised Moti's wisdom, everybody else did so too; and, whilst the Afghans went off crestfallen, Moti took the horse and entered the king's service. Question: Who was contentedly eating his horse? Answer: a tiger
Context: The old man did not in the least wish to lend it to his cruel neighbor, but he was too kind to refuse. So the envious man carried home the mortar, but he never brought it back. Question: What happened to the mortar when it was lent to his neighbor? Answer: The wicked neighbor broke it to pieces
Context: He held out his hand to say "good-bye," but as he did so the stranger pulled out a huge bag of gold and placed it in it. "You have done your part of the bargain--we must do ours," he said. " Question: What did the seal catcher do after the stranger vanished? Answer: carried the bag into his cottage, and turned the gold out on the table
Context: "His sentence has already been spoken," answered the other. " As a punishment he will be sent forth again into the world as an animal." Question: Why did Wang commit a great sin? Answer: This man pretended to be conscientious, and traitorously brought about the death of his friend.
Context: There was no water to be found, and he did not know how he was to refresh himself. The youth ran about everywhere like mad, looking for water; but there was no water there, and none to be found, and when he returned she was dead. Question: What happened after Mike by the Stove after he traveled a way? Answer: He grew very warm and thirsty.
Context: So the cock ran to the bride and said,  "Bride, give me some red silk; the brook wants me to give him some red silk; I want him to give me some water, for the hen lies yonder choking with a big nut stuck in her throat." And the cock was so grieved that he cried aloud, and all the beasts came and lamented for the hen; and six mice built a little waggon, on which to carry the poor hen to her grave, and when it was ready they harnessed themselves to it, and the cock drove. Question: What did the bride order the cock to do? Answer: go and fetch me my garland that hangs on a willow
Context: Now all that night it had rained heavily, and did not seem likely to stop, and in some places the road was so thick with mud that it was almost impossible to get across it. In one spot it was so very bad that a mule laden with baggage had got stuck in it, and tug as he might, his master was quite unable to pull him out. Question: Who were carefully skirting the swamp at some distance off? Answer: the two horsemen
Context: It touched the tin soldier so much to see her that he almost wept tin tears, but he kept them back. The flames lighted up the tin soldier, as he stood, the heat was very terrible, but whether it proceeded from the real fire or from the fire of love he could not tell. Question: What did the little boy do to the soldier? Answer: threw him in the stove
Context: The woman patted and pinned and fixed and joined, and then, turning to the man, she said:  'Now it is ready for you to try on.' 'That is because it is so fine,' answered she; 'you do not want it to be as thick as the rough clothes you wear every day.' Question: How does the wife respond to the husband's complain that the coat is not warm? Answer: Because it is a fine clothing and it should not be as thick as the rough clothes that the husband wears every day.
Context: He was bent on success in pursuit of the swan, whose red track he marked well far westward till she was lost to sight. Meanwhile he would tarry for the night and procure something to eat, as he had fasted since he had left home. Question: What did the chief instruct his daughter to do if the moccasins were torn? Answer: mend them and bring in Maidwa's bundle
Context: And the old man--it was Death himself--he nodded so strangely, it could just as well signify yes as no. But the old man was gone, and her little child was gone--he had taken it with him. Question: Why did the woman run out of the house? Answer: because the old man took her child
Context: 'This time you've made a mistake,' thought Prince Milan, and going to his room he sat down at the window. ' You will recognise me by a tiny fly I shall have on my left cheek, but be careful for you might easily make a mistake.' Question: How will the Prince be able to recognize the thirtieth daughter? Answer: by a tiny fly
Context: In the place to which they came all was adorned with silver plates and dishes, and with ornaments of silver, and Ola thought that the king himself had nothing finer. Suddenly the man with the gilded goat's horns came in, and gave Ola a shove before he knew it; but Ola came back at him as before, and so they beat and pulled each other through all the rooms, and along all the walls. Question: Why would Ola not eat? Answer: The food did not seem to him to be appetizing.
Context: "You must think it strange that I want to go away," said Momotaro, "because I have not yet told you my reason. I must go and conquer them and bring back all the plunder of which they have robbed this land. Question: Who lived on the island? Answer: the stronghold of a band of devils
Context: The king enjoined it upon the others in the lodge as a special edict, on pain of instant death, to give to Aggo's daughter every thing that she wanted, and to be careful not to displease her. The king himself went out hunting to obtain the most dainty meats, both of animals and wild fowl, to pleasure her palate; and he treated her every morning to a ride upon one of the royal buffalos, who was so gentle in his motions as not even to disturb a single one of the tresses of the beautiful hair of Aggo's daughter as she paced along. Question: How will the king feel when Aggo's daughter does not return his affections? Answer: sad
Context: At the spring of day, the next morning, the father, delighted at having gained his end, prepared a repast for his son, and hastened to set it before him. On coming to the door of the little lodge, he was surprised to hear his son talking to himself. Question: How did the father destroy Iadilla's fortune? Answer: The father would not listen to Iadilla's requests.
Context: The roll of silk, too, never grew shorter, though time after time long pieces were cut off to make the warrior a new suit of clothes to go to Court in at the New Year. No matter what was put into it, it cooked deliciously whatever was wanted without any firing-truly a very economical saucepan. Question: Why was the saucepan economical? Answer: It cooked deliciously whatever was wanted without any firing.
Context: Undoubtedly he had given every giant in Ireland a considerable beating, barring Finn M'Coul himself. Finn, however, had a strong disinclination to meet a giant who could make a young earthquake or flatten a thunderbolt when he was angry. Question: How did Finn's wife feel being alone? Answer: lonely
Context: And he heard from all and each   The foreign tongue of the Sassenach, not wholesome Irish speech. The monks to him made answer, "Two hundred years have gone over,   Since our Abbot Cormac went through the gate, and never was heard of     more. Question: Who came forward in Irish tongue? Answer: the oldest monk
Context: As the wind blew in their favor and they met no storms the ship made a quick voyage, and one day when the sun was shining brightly a sight of land rewarded the four watchers at the bow. Question: Why was their voyage quick? Answer: The wind blew in their favor.
Context: Then the mother wrung her hands, fell on her knees, and prayed to our Lord: "Oh, hear me not when I pray against Thy will, which is the best! And she bowed her head down in her lap, and Death took her child and went with it into the unknown land. Question: Where did Death take her child? Answer: into the unknown land
Context: "We'll fight about that first of all," said the goat, and butted the cat with his horns so that she rolled off the bridge, and fell into the water, and there she burst. Then they all crawled out, and each went to his own place, all whom the cat had eaten up, and were every one of them as lively as before, the man in the house and the woman in the stable and the bell-cow at the manger and the leaf-sweeper in the orchard and the weasel on the stone-pile and the squirrel in the hazel-bush and the fox, the sly-boots, and the hopping hare and the wild wolf and little bear brown-coat and the biting mother bear and bruin good-fellow and the bridal party on the road and the funeral procession at the church and the moon in a cloud and the sun in the sky. Question: How was everyone who had been eaten by the cat able to live? Answer: She burst.
Context: "Tin soldier," said the goblin, "don't wish for what does not belong to you." Now, whether it was the goblin who did it, or the draught, is not known, but the window flew open, and out fell the tin soldier, heels over head, from the third story, into the street beneath. Question: What happened when the window flew open? Answer: the tin soldier fell out
Context: Of all the young gallants in Scotland in the thirteenth century, there was none more gracious and debonair than Thomas Learmont, Laird of the Castle of Ercildoune, in Berwickshire. He loved books, poetry, and music, which were uncommon tastes in those days; and, above all, he loved to study nature, and to watch the habits of the beasts and birds that made their abode in the fields and woods round about his home. Question: Who was gracious and debonair? Answer: Thomas Learmont
Context: Hurry home at once to arrange your affairs and save what you can!" All that he possessed in the way of treasures, clothes and jewels, he removed from the house. Question: How did the man feel when the Fire-God said his house would be on fire? Answer: frightened
Context: "And as for the narrow road, all hampered and hindered by the thorns and the briars, there be few that be troubled to ask where that leadeth to. "And, mark'ee, Thomas, if ever thou hopest to see thine own Tower of Ercildoune again, take care of thy tongue when we reach our journey's end, and speak no single word to anyone save me--for the mortal who openeth his lips rashly in Fairy-land must bide there for ever." Question: What road did Thomas and the Queen of Fairies need to take? Answer: the third road
Context: Long ago a poor widow woman lived down by the iron forge near Enniscorthy, and she was so poor, she had no clothes to put on her son. At last, by hook or by crook, she got a goat-skin, and fastened it round his waist, and he felt quite grand, and took a walk down the street. As long as you keep from sin you'll win every battle you ever fight with it." Question: Why did Tom spare the joiant? Answer: He wanted the club.
Context: The thought that he should behold his kindred no more, made him sad. Forthwith Wassamo and the Old Spirit's daughter sat near each other in the lodge, and they were man and wife. Question: Who was the Old Spirit's bitter enemy? Answer: that Spirit who rules all islands lying in the lakes
Context: Finally Kung said: "It is not well to dwell too long amid the graves of the dead. Only when Kung and A-Sung came to visit them was the bolt drawn. Question: Where did Kung assign his friend and his family to live? Answer: a deserted garden
Context: Sylvia was glad to have leisure to think, for she could not make up her mind at all what she should ask for herself, and the time was drawing very near. By degrees I wearied of what had so delighted me at first, especially as I perceived more and more plainly that it is impossible to be constantly smart and amusing without being frequently ill-natured, and too apt to turn all things, even the most serious, into mere occasions for a brilliant jest.' Question: Why did Sylvia end up ceasing to covet the gift of wit? Answer: Like the gift of pleasing, it could not really give satisfaction.
Context: Bokwewa and his brother lived in a far-off part of the country. They lived off the path, in a wild, lonesome place, far retired from neighbors, and, undisturbed by cares, they passed their time, content and happy. Question: Where did Bokwewa and Kwasynd live? Answer: in a far-off part of the country
Context: The brave Wunzh felt that his strength of body was even less than on the day before, but the courage of his mind seemed to grow. Sitting down beside the youth, he began to deliver his instructions to him and to inform him in what manner he should proceed to take advantage of his victory. Question: What happened after Wunzh put forth his utmost powers? Answer: The stranger ceased his efforts, and declared himself conquered.
Context: Mike by the Stove thought that things were going from bad to worse, and this was the truth, since the further he went the warmer it grew. When he had come with her to the mill-pond, and had given her water, she came completely out of the lemon. Question: What did Mike by the Stove do while the princess hid in the tree? Answer: went to the castle and brought her clothes and told the king he had found her and how it had all happened
Context: I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune. Yes, and the clergyman's wife noticed me and said I was the best piece of linen in the whole parish. Question: how does the flax feel about being made into linen? Answer: happy
Context: 'That's a lie,' said Walter, 'I am not at all frightened, but it is more amusing when there are two. Come with me, Jonas, and you shall have the skin, and I will be content with the ears and the tail.' Question: What did Walter offer Jonas if he went with him? Answer: the wolf's skin
Context: After a time Mr. John Dormouse and his daughter began to sell peppermints and candles. And when Mr. John Dormouse was complained to, he stayed in bed, and would say nothing but "very snug;" which is not the way to carry on a retail business. Question: What did Mr. John Dormouse and his daughter sell? Answer: peppermints and candles
Context: "I have heard tell, however, that one is safe from any power that the Knight may have if one wearest the Sign of the Blessed Trinity. So he went out to the meadow and plucked a leaf of clover, which he bound on his arm with a silken scarf; then he mounted his horse and rode with Earl Gregory to the desolate and lonely moorland. Question: Why did the young men forget their fears of the Elfin Knight? Answer: It went well for a few hours.
Context: Two holes were left for the eyes, and Ivan carefully shaped out the mouth. And the loose snow fell away from Snowflake as an egg shell does from an egg, and it was a little girl whom Marie held in her arms. Question: What did Marie do when the snow-child moved its little arms and little legs? Answer: She threw herself upon Snowflake.
Context: "Brothers," he said, "I have invited you to partake with me of the offerings made by the mortals on earth, which have been brought by our relation," pointing to Wassamo. " And it was understood that the petitioners were to have all they asked, and that Wassamo was thenceforward fairly accepted as a member of the great family of Spirits. Question: What did Wassamo request? Answer: no sand-squalls among his father's people for three months to come
Context: When he heard the boy's message, the Seer's face grew grave and wrapt. "It is a summons," he said softly, "a summons from the Queen of Fairy-land. Question: What happened after Thomas met the snow-white Hard and Hind? Answer: All three moved slowly down a steep bank that sloped to the little river Leader, and disappeared in its foaming waters, for the stream was in full flood.
Context: 'O Fionn,' asked the man of the door-post, 'do you feel surprised at the appearance and arrangements of this house?' The giant carrying the grunting hog between the prongs of the iron fork, whom you first saw, is he who is yonder, and his name is SLOTH. The old man of the bright eyes yonder signifies the WORLD; and he is more powerful than anyone, which has been proved by his rendering the ram powerless. Question: Why did Cuanna from Innistul come to the house? Answer: She conceived a wonderful love for Fionn, on account of his superiority in wisdom and general celebrity, she therefore put those things into the way before him in order that she might see him.
Context: The breezes blew and ruffled the smooth surface of the water into wavelets, and passing on touched the cheeks of the old couple who, for some reason they could not explain, felt very happy that morning. Question: Why was the old couple very happy that morning? Answer: For some reason they could not explain
Context: In time she told them all that had happened to her, and they didn't know what to advise her to do. She was as fond of her husband as ever, and said she was sure that he couldn't help letting the children go; but still she was afraid beyond the world to have another child torn from her. Question: Why did the mother and sisters consult a wise woman that used to bring eggs to the castle? Answer: They had great faith in her wisdom.
Context: Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Question: How did Kintoki fall into disgrace at Court? Answer: the malice of some friends
Context: On one side, sitting among the cinders, with his face blackened, and crying aloud, was his elder brother. He seemed to be so lost and far-gone in grief that he could not notice his brother's arrival. Question: How did the eldest brother feel when he recognized Maidwa? Answer: joy
Context: "You have won your desire of the Great Spirit," said the beautiful stranger. " I know this, and now tell you what you must do to benefit your family and your people. Tomorrow," he repeated, "I shall meet you and wrestle with you for the last time. As soon as you have prevailed against me, you will strip off my garments and throw me down, clean the earth of roots and weeds, make it soft, and bury me in the spot. In the morning, Wunzh's father came to his lodge with some slight refreshments, saying:  "My son, you have fasted long enough. Question: Why did Wunzh extend his fast? Answer: He was going to wrestle with the stranger.
Context: Whenever guests came, his wife laid the table for the old folk in the bake-house, and on each occasion so much money was left lying there, that before long they did not know what to do with it all. You are not a very good husband; but you are a far worse farrier. "You have a great deal of strength in your fingers," said her husband, and he looked at her. Question: Who was a better farrier out of the dragoon and his wife? Answer: his wife
Context: There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow. When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was no wife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become of their mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men and women, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in the middle of them, going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep. Question: What happened after the husband was upset with his wife? Answer: His wife disappeared.
Context: The Prince returned to his room in despair; then the Princess Hyacinthia came to him once more changed into the likeness of a bee, and asked him, 'Why so sad, Prince Milan?' With these words she breathed on the window, and her breath froze on the pane. Question: Why did Hyacinthia tell the Prince they had to flee? Answer: There was no other way of escape.
Context: She fetched soft soap, and flannel, and a new scrubbing brush from the
storeroom. She swept, and scrubbed, and dusted; and she rubbed up the furniture
with beeswax, and polished her little tin spoons. Question: Who did Mrs. Tittlemouse invite to her party? Answer: five mice
Context: In the mean time, Aggo Dah Gauda had reached home, and finding that his daughter had been stolen, his indignation was so thoroughly awakened that he would have forthwith torn every hair from his head, but, being entirely bald, this was out of the question, so, as an easy and natural vent to his feelings, Aggo hopped off half a mile in every direction. There having been a frosty night or two since, the water was so covered with thin ice that Aggo could not venture upon it, even with one leg. Question: What happened after Aggo discovered his daughter had been stolen? Answer: Aggo's indignation was so thoroughly awakened that he would have forthwith torn every hair from his head.
Context: You must not rouse my anger with your violence, or I will skin you, together with that old mud-fish, your father!" Then Notscha took his golden armlet and struck him on the forehead with it, so that he had to reveal himself in his true form as a golden dragon, and fall down dead. While they were still quarreling Notscha came running up and cried: "Father, I'm bringing along a dragon's sinew for you, so that you may bind up your armor with it!" Question: What will the Dragon-King do after his son is defeated? Answer: hasten to Notscha's father Li Dsing and demand that Notscha be delivered up to him
Context: At last, after wandering in an unknown region for many days, he met a hunter. "Can you tell me," asked Sentaro, "where the hermits live who have the Elixir of Life?" Question: Who did the hunter said lived in those parts? Answer: a notorious robber
Context: Years passed away, and at last the linen was so worn it could scarcely hold together. " Now I am finer than ever, and who can tell what fine things I may have written upon me? Question: What did people write on the paper? Answer: the most beautiful stories and poetry
Context: Another month passed and Aduan, filled with gloomy thoughts, wished that death might be his portion. Now Rose of Evening had originally been a celebrated singing girl of Wu, who had fallen into the river and whose body had never been found. Question: What will happened when Rose of Evening jumps into the water? Answer: carried to the surface, and the waves carried and cradled her till a ship came by and took her aboard
Context: At last Tom came to one of the city gates, and the guards laughed and cursed at him instead of letting him through. But an envious wizened basthard of a fellow, with a red head, that wished to be married to the princess, and didn't like how she opened her eyes at Tom, came forward, and asked his business very snappishly. Question: Why were there wrestling and rinka-fadhas? Answer: to please the princess
Context: When the first ray of light entered the room, he noticed that the little blue flower began to tremble, and at last it rose out of the pot and flew about the room, put everything in order, swept away the dust, and lit the fire. The Princess went up to the head cook, and said, 'Dear cook, please listen to my request, and let me make a wedding-cake for Prince Milan.' Question: Why did Hyacinthia go in disguise to the wedding? Answer: She did not want to be recognized.
Context: And from this time the weight of sorrow was greatly lightened for her young heart. It was a trying position; but her days spent in the recollection of her own beloved mother, and of trying to be what that mother would wish her to be, had made the young girl docile and patient, and she now determined to be filial and dutiful to her father's wife, in all respects. Question: What did the daughter grow to in? Answer: the likeness of her dead mother's character
Context: Sometimes he was enforced to pass the night in the clefts of old trees or caverns, and to break his fast with the refuse meals of the savage wolves. When he told them that he had been forsaken by his brother and his sister, the wolves turned about to each other, lifted up their eyes to heaven, and wondered among themselves, with raised paws, that such a thing should have been. Question: Why did the wolves always leave Sheem something to eat? Answer: They understood his outcast condition.
Context: So dally no longer, but mount behind me, for it is full time that I was gone." At least, so it seemed to the weary eyes of Thomas of Ercildoune, and he wondered if he and his strange companion had to cross this desert; and, if so, if there were any chance of reaching the other side of it alive. Question: What will happen after Thomas mounts behind the Queen of Fairies? Answer: They will leave land of the living behind, and cpme to the edge of a great desert.
Context: The bridegroom looked, and on one side of the road he saw a large ball of thread of all colours. All the colours, that is, of the dresses that were tied on to the back of the cart. Question: Why was the dressmaker delighted with the thread? Answer: It matched the stuffs so perfectly, and never tied itself in knots, or broke perpetually, as most thread did.
Context: But Redhead whispered and nudged Tom about how shabby it would look to reneague the adventure. Thankee," says Tom; "now would you open the gate for a body and I'll give you no more trouble." " It is easier getting inside them gates than getting out again. And when he got home to the big bawn of the palace, there never was such running and racing as to see himself and the flail. Question: What will the Ould Boy do when Tom gets the flail? Answer: trick Tom
Context: But I can give you some good advice as to how you can see him. The daughter took the candle-end and hid it in her wimple, and in the evening the white bear came to fetch her. Question: What did the white bear do in the evening? Answer: came to fetch her
Context: Then Hidesato called to the Dragon King to come out with him on the balcony, for the centipede was dead and he had nothing more to fear. Then all the inhabitants of the palace came out with joy, and Hidesato pointed to the lake. Question: What did the family do after Hidesato killed the centipede? Answer: came and bowed down before the warrior
Context: Prince Milan's heart was so moved with pity for the poor little creature that he came out from behind the bulrushes, to see if he could be of any help. Don't mind if he stamps furiously with his feet and curses and swears. The Magician sat on a throne, a sparkling crown on his head; his eyes blazed like a green fire, and instead of hands he had claws. At last the Magician laughed aloud and said, 'You rogue, you have been well advised to make me laugh; I won't be your enemy any more. For to-day you may go, but to-morrow I shall have something more to say to you.' Question: What happened as soon as the Prince entered the palace? Answer: He flung himself on his knees.
Context: Duchess read the letter and wrote an answer:--"I will come with much pleasure at a quarter past four. And then she thought that did not look quite polite; so she scratched out "isn't mouse" and changed it to "I hope it will be fine," and she gave her letter to the postman. Question: Why did Ribby change the wording of her last words? Answer: She thought that it did not look quite polite.
Context: One beautiful bright morning, as he was hauling his well-filled nets into the boat, he saw lying among the fishes a tiny little turtle. Now Uraschimataro was very good-natured, and besides, he could never bear to say no, so he picked up the turtle, and put it back into the sea. Question: How did Uraschimataro feel when he saw lying among the fishes a tiny little turtle? Answer: delighted
Context: He had both lands and money, but, though he was so well off, one thing was wanting to complete his happiness; he had no children. Not long after this his wife gave birth to a child, but though the lower half of the little creature was a fine boy, from the waist upwards it was a hedgehog, so that when his mother first saw him she was quite frightened, and said to her husband, 'There now, you have cursed the child yourself.' Question: How did the farmer feel when the others teazed him about being childless? Answer: angry
Context: You must not rouse my anger with your violence, or I will skin you, together with that old mud-fish, your father!" Then Notscha took his golden armlet and struck him on the forehead with it, so that he had to reveal himself in his true form as a golden dragon, and fall down dead. Question: How did Notscha defeat the Dragon-King's son? Answer: took his golden armlet and struck him on the forehead with it
Context: The way was further than they thought, and it was morning before they reached the palace. He was a clever and amusing boy, who saw everything that passed under his eyes, and the king noticed this, and often employed him in his own service, which made his brothers very jealous. Question: Where were the two eldest given places? Answer: the king's stables
Context: His tail dropped between his legs, and coming near he bowed so low that his forehead touched the ground. Not knowing who you were I have behaved in a very stupid way. Question: How did the dog feel about Momotaro? Answer: respect
Context: He was so fond of them that he never could bear to have them all away from him at once. The youngest the king wanted to keep at home, and the others were to bring along a bride for him. Question: Why did the other sons need to bring home a bride for the youngest? Answer: The youngest the king wanted to keep at home.
Context: When they grew tired of this, they told each other stories of all their exploits of which they were proud, and then played games together; and Momotaro found much to amuse him in listening to the three animals and watching their antics, and in this way he forgot that the way was long and that he was tired of the voyage and of doing nothing. He longed to be at work killing the monsters who had done so much harm in his country. Question: Why was Momotaro tired of the voyage? Answer: the way was long
Context: Then he grew angry, stood up, took his club, pounded the ground with it, and asked whether they wanted to take the food from his mouth with the blueberries they were blowing out at him from their clumsy blow-pipes. When Murmur came back and asked for more work, the king was at a loss, for he had felt sure that now he was rid of him. Question: What happened when Murmur struck a few more blows? Answer: The hills and valleys round about trembled.
Context: Then she had to sit down and remain seated, for the chair had power to hold fast all that approached it. In the meantime they wandered about in the hill, and the comrade kept looking around until he saw a sword that hung above the door. Question: What will the comrade do when the witch offered them the chair to sit in? Answer: tell the witch to sit in the chair
Context: The hue of her hair was like the flower of the iris in summer or like red gold after the burnishing thereof. And after a space Murtough perceived her sitting there, and the sun shining upon her, so that the glittering of the gold and of her golden hair and the bright shining of the green silk of her garments, was like the yellow iris-beds upon the lake on a sunny summer's day. Question: How did Murtough feel about Sheen's beauty? Answer: wonder
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What did the wounded arm touch? Answer: something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds
Context: An old man was sitting alone in his lodge by the side of a frozen stream. Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the sounds of the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow. Question: How will the old man feel sitting alone in the lodge? Answer: isolated
Context: "Plays that are neglected now-a-days by the great public were ran after thirty years ago, and listened to till the tears ran down the cheeks of the audience. But I make them shorter, for the youngsters don't like long speeches. Question: who cries at the man's plays? Answer: the little ones
Context: "There is one point," they added, "of which we wish to speak. For another to usurp what belongs to her, we know to be the severest test of her goodness of heart, and consequently of your temper and feelings. Question: What did the little child lead the hunter in? Answer: all good deeds, and health, peace, and long life were the rewards of the hunter's hospitality
Context: On the following day the comrade said that now they must get on their way. The dower supplied by the troll was worth more than the king's whole country, and they did not know how they were to take it home. What the goats could not carry, had to be left at the castle. Question: How did the youth feel when the comrade wanted to part? Answer: reluctant
Context: Then, close outside the window, the sweetest song they heard. Those two they sang together, waved their white wings, and fled,   flew aloft, and vanished. Question: What happened after the two birds sang? Answer: waved their white wings and fled
Context: Even the cross old neighbor could not refuse such a simple request, so he consented to give the old man the tree under which Shiro lay buried. In this his wife put some rice, and he began to pound it with the intention of making a festival to the memory of his dog Shiro. Question: What did the old man and his wife do in memory of his dog? Answer: made a festival to the memory of his dog Shiro
Context: This little incident made the clever Emperor think that he might try to make something that could carry himself and his men over the river in the same way that the leaf had carried over the spider. He set to work and persevered till he invented the first boat. Question: Why did the Emperor order his men to build more boats? Answer: so there would be enough for all his men
Context: 'The town is easy to get into, but more difficult to get out of,' sighed Hyacinthia. ' The first day passed, and then the second, and at last the third also, but Prince Milan did not return, for he had not taken Hyacinthia's advice. Question: Why did the Prince not return on the third day? Answer: He had not taken Hyacinthia's advice.
Context: 'I certainly think that there will not be more than two,' said Jonas, 'there are never more than two when they slay children and rams. 'But, you see, Jonas,' said Walter, 'if there are two, it might still happen that one of them escapes and bites me in the leg. Question: How many wolves did Jonas think there were? Answer: not be more than two
Context: On the following day there was to be a wedding at the castle, and not only was the older prince to marry, but the one who had stayed with the giant as well, and he was to get the other bride's sister. So they sent to the little house in the forest, and asked most politely whether the maiden would not loan them the poker of which the bailiff had spoken. Question: Who was to be marry on the following day? Answer: the older prince
Context: Accordingly, Ko-ko had just time to draw on the moccasins when the wicked father came in sight. Cry as loud as he would, the enchanted moccasins would keep on in their own course; and before he could shake himself out of them, they had run him directly into the face of the wicked father. "At any rate, I shall soon be home at this speed," said Ko-koor to himself. Question: Why did the moccasins suddenly leap and leave the Owl flat upon his back? Answer: The moccasins did not want to take him home.
Context: "A delightful voice, certainly," continued the Frog; "I hope you will come over to the duck-pond. In fact, you should take example by me; you could not possibly have a better model. I am a great favourite at Court; in fact, the Prince and Princess were married yesterday in my honour. Question: How did the Rocket feel about the Frog? Answer: irritated
Context: The lamp burned through the whole evening and began to perceive too clearly that the gift of the stars would remain a hidden treasure all its life. This caused the lamp quite as much anxiety as on the day when it had been called upon to appear before the mayor and the council at the town hall. Question: What was on the walls of the room in the lamp's dream? Answer: splendid paintings
Context: Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. Question: How did the hare get thrown off guard? Answer: the pain of having his long ear pulled so hard
Context: His brother and sister ran to meet him, and called out from the distance, 'Where have you been so long, Lasse? The airy fairy fancies of happy Dreamland never grow old; they, like the glorious stars above us, are always young. Question: Who ran to meet Little Lasse? Answer: his brother and sister
Context: "Win victory and blessings, O Fenian King," said Conan; "it is with clear memory and sweet words you relate these things. We overtook Diarmuid, but did not come up with the giant or the girl; for a dark, gloomy, druidical mist showered down between us and them, so that we could not discern what road they took. When the mist cleared away we looked around us, and discovered a light-roofed, comfortable-looking house at the edge of the ford near at hand. Question: Where were Fionn, Oisin, Caolite, Mac Lughaidh, and Diarmuid O'Duibhne one day? Answer: on the summit of Cairn Feargall
Context: And the dog and the cat looking up caught sight of the wolf, who came down, quite ashamed of his timidity, and made peace with the dog once more. Question: What did the wolf and the dog do after the wild boar was caught? Answer: The wolf made peace with the dog.
Context: Here a bird flew down and alighted on the ground just in front of the little party. On its body were five different robes of feathers and its head was covered with a scarlet cap. Question: How did the bird look? Answer: beautiful
Context: His host tried to persuade the warrior to stay a few days, but Hidesato insisted on going home, saying that he had now finished what he had come to do, and must return. The Dragon King and his family were all very sorry to have him leave so soon, but since he would go they begged him to accept a few small presents (so they said) in token of their gratitude to him for delivering them forever from their horrible enemy the centipede. Question: Why did Hidesato insist on going home? Answer: He had now finished what he had come to do.
Context: Once upon a time there was a girl who was to go to the wood and drive the cattle home; but she did not find the herd, and losing her way instead, came to a great hill. Straightway people arrived who wanted to dance with the girl; but she would hear nothing of it. Question: What did the girl choose to do? Answer: nothing at all
Context: Once upon a time there was a man who had a cat, and she ate so very much that he did not want to keep her any longer. So he decided to tie a stone around her neck, and throw her into the river; but before he did so she was to have something to eat just once more. Question: What was the cat to do before the man threw her into the river? Answer: something to eat just once more
Context: In the following spring the crab was delighted to see the shoot of a young tree push its way up through the ground. It was the little crab's pleasure to go out day by day and sit in the sun and put out his long eyes in the same way as a snail puts out its horn, and watch the persimmons ripening to perfection. Question: How did the crab feel to see his persimmon tree? Answer: delighted
Context: And the tree looked at all the splendour and freshness of the flowers in the garden, and then looked at itself, and wished that it had been left lying in the dark corner of the lumber-room; it thought of its fresh youth in the wood, of the merry Christmas Eve, and of the little mice who had listened so happily to the story of Humpty Dumpty. And a servant came and cut the tree into small pieces, there was quite a bundle of them; they flickered brightly under the great copper in the brew-house; the tree sighed deeply, and each sigh was like a pistol-shot; so the children who were playing there ran up, and sat in front of the fire, gazing at it, and crying, 'Piff! Question: What happened after the servant came and cut the tree into small pieces? Answer: The tree had burnt away.
Context: Once more the grey palfrey was brought, and Thomas and the Queen mounted it; and, as they had come, so they returned to the Eildon Tree near the Huntly Burn. Then the Queen bade Thomas farewell; and, as a parting gift, he asked her to give him something that would let people know that he had really been to Fairy-land. Question: Why did the Queen give Thomas a harp? Answer: She wanted to give him something mortals can see.
Context: His mind had become impaired, and he was confined in a secluded part of the Dun. At last, when he was ten years old, selecting a favourable night, Setanta stole away from his father's Dun, and before morning had crossed the frontier. Question: Where was Setanta's father confined? Answer: in a secluded part of the Dun
Context: "Only listen," said the young storks, "to what the boys are singing. But the boys went on singing, and pointed mockingly at the sentinel stork. Question: which boy did not join in the singing? Answer: Peter
Context: For some hours all went well; and in the heat of the chase the young men forgot their fears. "By my troth, but he rideth in haste, whoever he may be," said Earl Gregory at last, "and though I always thought that no steed on earth could match mine for swiftness, I reckon that for every league that mine goeth, his would go seven. It will be an evil day for thee when thou seekest to do that." Question: Why couldn't  Sir Gregory see the same thing as Earl St. Clair? Answer: Earl St. Clair wore the Sign of the Blessed Trinity.
Context: All the next day he sat on the Prince's shoulder, and told him stories of what he had seen in strange lands. "Dear little Swallow," said the Prince, "you tell me of marvellous things, but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and of women. Question: What did the Swallow tell the Happy Prince when sitting on his shoulder? Answer: stories of what he had seen in strange lands
Context: Once upon a time there were three brothers who had lost their parents, and since the latter had left their sons nothing upon which to live, they had to wander out into the world, and seek their fortune. The two older brothers prepared for the journey as well as they were able; but the youngest, whom they called "Mike by the Stove," because he was always sitting behind the stove whittling, they did not want to take with them. Question: Why did the sons have to wander out into the world and seek their fortune? Answer: Their parents had left their sons nothing upon which to live.
Context: Jack took a horn, a shovel, a pickaxe, his armor, and a dark lantern, and one winter's evening he went to the mount. He then blew his horn so loudly that the giant awoke and came out of his den crying out: "You saucy villain! Question: What did Jack take with him to the mount? Answer: a horn, a shovel, a pickaze, his armor, and a dark lantern
Context: Now the brother was filled with envy at the words of the man, and he set out at once, and before dawn he had reached the hut, and saw the pot and the mortar were standing outside. He slung them over his shoulders and departed, pleased with his own cleverness; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast, she could find it nowhere. Question: How was the girl able to get another pot and mortar? Answer: exchanged corn for them
Context: So trouble and anger wrought in the witch woman, and she waited the day to be revenged on Murtough, for he being yet a pagan, was still within her power to harm. So when Sheen (for Sheen or "Storm" was the name men gave to her) saw the King seated on the fairy mound and all his comrades parted from him, she arose softly, and combed her hair with her comb of silver adorned with little ribs of gold, and she washed her hands in a silver basin wherein were four golden birds sitting on the rim of the bowl, and little bright gems of carbuncle set round about the rim. Question: What did Sheen don? Answer: Her mantle of flowing green.
Context: Yes," said the man, "for I have to buy the first thing that comes my way." " I don't even know whether I ought to show it to you; but I bought the first thing to be had, and that was a pup," said he. " Question: Why was the youth satisfied with the gift? Answer: He had always been fond of dogs.
Context: While standing thus, with a heart beating more and more eagerly every moment for the possession of this fair swan, Maidwa remembered the saying of his elder brother, that in their deceased father's medicine-sack were three magic arrows. The third, which he carefully aimed and drew home upon the string with all his force, made the lucky hit, and passed through the neck of the bird a little above the breast. Question: Who did the father bequeath the arrows to? Answer: Maidwa
Context: Murmur did so, and then the horse turned into a fine-looking man. But in the bed lay the troll's grandmother, and she was snoring. Question: What happened because Murmur ran off with the sword? Answer: The old troll grandmother came after them.
Context: Only do not forget what I told you, or you will make us both unhappy." The maiden answered that all was well with her, also, and that she had all that heart could desire. Question: How did the parents feel about what their daughter had done for them? Answer: grateful
Context: He is the Yellow Lord or Ancient, who created this world together with the other four. His most celebrated incarnation, however, is that of Laotsze, "The Old Child," which name he was given because he made his appearance on earth with white hair. Question: Who was really older than heaven and earth put together? Answer: Laotsze
Context: In the middle of a great forest there lived a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife. The nights in which they went hungry to bed became more and more frequent. Question: Why was the couple unhappy? Answer: They could not find work.
Context: But when he had wept for some time he told himself that this crying would do no good; it was his duty to avenge his father's murder, and this he determined to do. The young crab knew that monkeys liked persimmons above all other fruit, and he felt sure that his greed for the coveted fruit had been the cause of the old crab's death. Question: How did the crab's son know it was the monkey who killed his father? Answer: remembered that his father told him the story of the rice-dumpling and the persimmon-seed
Context: The compass, with its needle always pointing to the North, is quite a common thing. No matter how the chariot was placed the figure always wheeled about and pointed to the South. Question: What was the shinansha? Answer: chariot with the figure of a man on it always pointing to the south
Context: Sentaro had often heard the tale of the Chinese King named Shin-no-Shiko. Certain hermits lived there who possessed the secret of the "Elixir of Life." Question: What did Shin-no-Shiko do because he was afraid of death? Answer: called a meeting of his courtiers and asked him all if they could not find for him the "Elixir of Life."
Context: and both the wild geese fell dead among the reeds, and the water was stained blood red. into the mud, and the reeds and rushes swayed hither and thither; it was terrible for the wretched Duckling, who was bending his neck to get it under his wing, when all at once, close to him, there was a fearful big dog with his tongue hanging right out of his mouth and his eyes shining horribly. He thrust his muzzle right at the Duckling and showed his sharp teeth--and then--splash! Question: Why didn't the dog want to bite the duckling? Answer: He was so ugly.
Context: 'I will tell you who I am,' said the old man; 'I am the raspberry king, who reigns over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and I have lived here for more than a thousand years. Now yesterday was just my transformation day, and I was taken with the raspberry and would have been trampled to death if you had not saved my life. Question: Who reigned over all this kingdom of raspberry bushes, and lived here for more than a thousand years? Answer: the raspberry king
Context: The nails glittered like stars, and twinkled with live light as stars do in a frosty night, and the blade of it quivered like a tongue of white fire. There was a ring of flame round Tara that night, for the Fians and the warriors of Conn had torches in their hands, and all the royal buildings of Tara showed clear in the light, and also the dark serpentine course of the Boyne, which flowed past Tara on the north; and there, standing silent and alert, were the innumerable warriors of all Erin, with spear and shield, keeping watch and ward against the son of Midna, also the Four Pillars of Tara in four dense divisions around the high King, even Conn the Hundred-Fighter. Question: Who stood silent and alert? Answer: warriors of all Erin
Context: For seven days she wandered about, eating only the fruit that hung from the trees above her, and every night she climbed up and tucked herself safely among the creepers which bound together the big branches, so that neither lions nor tigers nor panthers might get at her. When she woke up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke coming up from a little town on the edge of the forest. Question: What did the girl eat in the forest? Answer: only the fruit that hung from the trees above her
Context: Now Dick was more versed in giving blows than in making music. His first impulse was to seize the Sword, then, come what might, he had something in his hand to defend himself with. He blew a blast upon it, which, however, was so weak and feeble that it could scarce be heard at the other end of the hall. Question: What did the Knights do when they woke up from their enchanted sleep? Answer: sprang to their feet and seized their swords, brandishing them round their heads
Context: The wolf, the bear, and the wild boar arrived on the spot first, and when they had waited some time for the fox, the dog, and the cat, the bear said, 'I'll climb up into the oak tree, and look if I can see them coming.' But the third time he said, 'I see a mighty army in the distance, and one of the warriors has the biggest lance you ever saw!' Question: Who did wolf and the boar see at the third time they looked around? Answer: the cat
Context: Yes, he had been wrong, there was no doubt of that, and he did not quite know how it had come about. He had meant to have told his father all about it, and he was sure, quite sure, that if once the old man had seen his wife, he would have forgiven her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness. Question: Why didn't the son tell his father about his wife? Answer: She was poor.
Context: He did not sleep much that night, as you may imagine, for thinking of the morrow. The mother ran out from the kitchen to the spot, only just in time to see the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch. Question: What did the wife see when she ran out from the kitchen? Answer: the boar disappearing through the gate with her child in its clutch
Context: As they were sitting in the lodge, surrounded by the friends and relatives, the mother of the Red Head regarded the face of her new daughter-in-law for a long time with fixed attention. She still urged her doubts, which so vexed the husband that he broke his pipe-stem in her face, and called her an owl. Question: Why did the mock bride inform the Red Head she should return to her own friends? Answer: She received so gross an affront from his relatives she could not think of remaining with him as his wife.
Context: Gopani-Kufa went back to his kraal, and with the new moon he returned again to the spot where he had saved the python. Gopani-Kufa at first was afraid, thinking of what the antelope had said, but finally he consented and followed Insato into the forest. Question: Why did Gopani-Kufa return? Answer: to receive his reward from the python
Context: In the mean time, Aggo Dah Gauda had reached home, and finding that his daughter had been stolen, his indignation was so thoroughly awakened that he would have forthwith torn every hair from his head, but, being entirely bald, this was out of the question, so, as an easy and natural vent to his feelings, Aggo hopped off half a mile in every direction. There having been a frosty night or two since, the water was so covered with thin ice that Aggo could not venture upon it, even with one leg. Question: What did Aggo vow? Answer: His single leg should never know rest again until he had found his beautiful daughter and brought her home.
Context: Full of terror, she made her way back to the bank, and called to the snake, 'My baby is gone!--he is drowned, and never shall I see him again.' but all the same she did as she was bid, and in an instant the wounded arm touched something round and soft, lying between two stones in a clump of reeds. Question: What arm did the girl use to find her baby? Answer: her unwounded arm
Context: 'Now, child,' said she, 'tell me what impression you have received.' In allowing herself to be seen, she appeared to think that she was doing all that could possibly be required of her. And, indeed, she does need it terribly, for all the things in her that were tolerable, and even agreeable, when she was so pretty, seem quite different now she is ugly. Question: What happened after Iris became seriously ill? Answer: Her beauty was entirely gone.
